CATEGORY: MIDWIFERY
TOPIC: MIDWIFE-FHC
TOPIC_CODE: MIDWIFE-FHC

INSTRUCTION: Select the correct answer for each of the following questions. Mark only one answer for each item by shading the box corresponding to the letter of your choice on the answer sheet provided. Use pencil no. 1 only. STICTLY NO ERASURES ALLOWED.

1.	The first sign of sexual development in boys usually is: 
Correct. b
Rationale. exmpty

a.	Growth of pubic hair
b. Testicular enlargement
c. Nocturnal emissions
d. Deepening voice

2.	Menarche usually occurs:
Correct. c
Rationale. exmpty

a.	At the onset of puberty
b. In Tanner’s stage II
c. In Tanner’s stage IV
d. At the onset of senescence

3.	Which of the following is the normal order of sexual maturity in girls?
Correct. c
Rationale. exmpty

a.	Appearance of pubic hair, menarche, breast enlargement
b.	Menarche, breast enlargement, appearance of pubic hair
c.	Breast enlargement, appearance of pubic hair, menarche
d.	Appearance of pubic hair, breast enlargement, menarche

4.	When assessing the pulse on Mrs. Gamboa, you find that the pulsation are not easily felt, a slight pressure causes the pulse to disappear.  You would this as what kind of pulse?
Correct. b
Rationale. exmpty

a.	bounding
b. thready
c. absent
d. normal

5.	The client’s height and weight are included in a general survey to assess:
Correct. a
Rationale. exmpty

a.	Overall nutrition
b. presence of obesity
c. body shape
d. muscle tone

6.	An excess amount of perspiration, as when the entire skin surface of the body is moist, is called:
Correct. b
Rationale. exmpty

a.	ecchymosis
b. diaphoresis
c. turgor
d. edema

7.	A comparison of bilateral sides of a boy part is an assessment for:
Correct. b
Rationale. exmpty

a.	tremor
b. tic
c. edema
d. symmetry

8.	Which of the following is emphasized in the hospital’s procedure in case of fire?
Correct. a
Rationale. exmpty

a.	move anyone that is in immediate danger out of the area
b.	open the window in the area & close the door in the area
c.	take the elevator to the ground floor & get help
d.	stay upright if smoke is present & move out of the area

9.	Nutrients that supply energy & build tissue are referred to as which of the following?
Correct. c
Rationale. exmpty

a.	micronutrients
b. super nutrients
c. macronutrients
d. CHO

10.	Which of the following nutrients provide energy to the body?
Correct. a
Rationale. exmpty

a.	CHO
b. vitamins
c. minerals
d. calcium

11.	Which of the following nutrients provides the most concentrated source of energy in the diet, providing 9 calories for every gram?
Correct. c
Rationale. exmpty

a.	CHON
b. CHO
c. fats
d. minerals

12.	The main function of which of the following nutrients is to maintain body tissues that break down from normal “wear & tear”?
Correct. c
Rationale. exmpty

a.	CHO
b. minerals
c. CHON
d. fats

13.	Blood pressure measurement is an important part of the patient’s data base.  It is considered to be:
Correct. b
Rationale. Objective data are those, such as blood pressure, which can be measured or perceived by someone other than the patient.  Subjective data are those, such as pain, which only the patient can perceive.  Nursing diagnosis is based on much more than a blood pressure reading.  Blood pressure measurement alone does not necessarily indicated the patient’s well-being.

a.	the only basis of the healthcare diagnosis
b.	objective data
c. an indicator of the patient’s well-being
d. subjective data


14.	Using a blood pressure cuff that’s too small for the patient’s arm can result in:
Correct. a
Rationale. If a blood pressure cuff is too small for the extremity being measured, the patient with normal pressure will appear to be hypertensive; a smaller cuff will not record brachial artery measurements unless excessive pressure is applied.  False-low measurements are obtained when a cuff is too large for the patient.

a.	a false-high measurement
b.	a false-low measurement
c. no significant difference in measurement
d. the inability to obtain a measurement


15.	The balance between the body’s heat production and its heat loss is the basis for:
Correct. a
Rationale. Body heat is continuously produced from oxidation of foodstuffs in the cells and lost primarily through the skin.  The hypothalamus maintains a balance between heat production and loss, which results in the body temperature.  Caloric needs are determined by age, body build, and the amount of energy expended.  The basal metabolic rate is the amount of heat produced by body cells when they are as close to being at rest as is possible during life.  Circadian rhythm is the 24-hour pattern of certain physiologic phenomena, such as eating and sleeping.

a.	body temperature
b. daily caloric needs
c. the basal metabolic rate
d. circadian rhythm


16.	Stressors cause the release of the mineralocorticoid aldosterone, which regulates sodium absorption and potassium excretion in the renal tubules, resulting in:
Correct. c
Rationale. Because aldosterone regulates the body’s sodium and potassium levels, it acts as an adaptive mechanism in maintaining blood volume and conserving water.  Supplemental potassium usually is given to a patient with a low serum potassium level or one who is receiving a diuretic or other medication-such as digoxin-that has mild diuretic effect.  A low-sodium diet is usually prescribed for a patient with a high serum sodium level, as in congestive heart failure (CHF), hypertension, or prolonged episodes of edema.  Diuresis is increased naturally when a healthy patient increases his intake of fluids, especially those containing caffeine.  Patients receiving diuretics also experience increased diuresis.

a.	the need for supplemental potassium
b.	the need for a low-sodium (500-mg) diet
c. the conservation of water and maintenance of blood volume
d. increased diuresis

17.	Anxiety can be a reaction to stress that occurs at the conscious, subconscious, or unconscious levels.  It differs from fear in that anxiety:
Correct. c
Rationale. Anxiety is a state of apprehension, dread, or helplessness related to unreal, imagined, or anticipated illness or stress, such as impending surgery.  It can result from emotional or psychological conflict.  The other choices are characteristics of fear, an unpleasant, often strong emotion caused by anticipated or imminent danger.

a.	results from unreal, imagined, or anticipated dangers or stressors
b.	is related  to the present
c.	is a definite feeling or sensation
d.	occurs in response to a definite or concrete physical or psychological event

18.	Terms that describe bladder emptying include:
Correct. b
Rationale. Micturition, avoiding, and urination refer to emptying of the bladder.  Melena is black (blood-tinged) stool; flatulence is the presence of excessive amounts of air or gas in the stomach or intestine; tenesmus is painful, spasmodic contractions of the anal or vesical sphincter accompanied by the persistnet urge to void or defecate.  Defecation  is the act of expelling feces via the rectum; eructation is belching of gas or fluid from the stomach.  Polyuria is the excretion of an excessive amount of urine;  oliguria is the diminished formation of urine; nocturia is excessive nighttime urination.

a.	melena, flatulence, tenesmus
b.	micturition, voiding urination
c. defecation, eructation, flatulence
d. polyuria, oliguria, nocturia

19.	A healthy adult’s body compensates for decreased urine output by:
Correct. c
Rationale. Thirst makes a person drink and thus compensates for decreased urine output.  Sweating has no bearing on a person’s urine output.  A distended bladder indicates a need to void that may stem from a urethral obstruction or an atonic bladder.

a.	decreased sweating
b. increased sweating
c. thirst
d. bladder distention

20.	Certain substances increase the amount of urine produced.  These include:
Correct. a
Rationale. Fluids containing caffeine have a diuretic effect.  Beets and urinary analgesics, such as pyridium, can color urine red. Kaopectate is an antidiarrheal medication.

a.	caffeine-containing drinks, such as coffee and cola
b.	beets
c. urinary analgesics
d. kaolin with pectin (kaopectate)

21.	Normal urine pH is:
Correct. a
Rationale. Normal urine pH is usually acidic, averaging 6.0; however, normal levels can range from 4.5 (highly acidic) to 8.0 (highly alkaline).

a.	Acidic
b.	Alkaline
c.	Neutral
d.	related to a decrease in hydrogen ions

22.	When percussing over the stomach, the nurse notes a loud, drumlike sound. The term to document this  percussion tone is:
Correct. c
Rationale. Tympany is a loud, drumlike sound, heard over an air-filled organ. Dullness has a thudlike quality. Flatness is a flat, high-pitched sound. Resonance is a hollow sound heard over lung tissue.

a.	Dullness
b. Flatness
c. Tympany
d. Resonance

23.	Skin turgor may be assessed by which of the following techniques?
Correct. d
Rationale. Skin turgor is assessed by lightly pinching a fold of skin and allowing it to return to its shape when released.

a.	Indenting with the fingertips
b.	Using special lighting
c. Touching to detect moisture
d. Lightly pinching a skin fold

24.	In addition to standard precautions, the midwife caring for a patient with rubella would plan to implement:
Correct. a
Rationale. Rubella is an illness transmitted by large particle droplets and requires droplet precautions in addition to standard precautions. Airborne precautions are used for patients who have infections spread through the air with small particles, for example, tuberculosis, varicella, and rubeola. Universal precautions and body-substance isolation are incorporated into the new CDC standard precautions recommendations.

a.	Droplet precautions
b. Airborne precautions
c. Contact precautions
d. Universal precautions

25.	The recommended sequence for removing soiled personal protective equipment when the nurse prepares to leave the patient’s room is to remove:
Correct. c
Rationale. Gloves are always removed first because they are most likely to be contaminated, and hands should be washed thoroughly after the equipment has been removed and before leaving the room.

a.	Gown, goggles, mask, gloves, and exit the room
b.	Gloves, wash hands, remove gown, mask, and goggles
c. Gloves, mask, gown, goggles, and wash hands
d. Goggles, mask, gloves, gown, and wash hands

26.	A patient develops food poisoning from contaminated potato salad. The means of transmission for the infecting organism is:
Correct. c
Rationale. Contaminated food is a vehicle for transmitting an infection. Direct contact requires proximity between the susceptible host and an infected person. A vector is a nonhuman carrier, such as an insect, and the airborne means of transmission carries the organism in droplet nuclei or with dust.

a.	Direct contact
b. Vector
c. Vehicle
d. Airborne

27.	The practice of gaining sexual pleasure while inflicting abuse on another person is called:
Correct. c
Rationale. Pedophilia is the practice of adults gaining sexual fulfillment by sexual acts with children. Voyeurism refers to a sexual arousal achieved by looking at the body of another. Sadism refers to gaining sexual pleasure while inflicting abuse on another person. Masochism refers to gaining sexual pleasure from the humiliation of being abused.

a.	Pedophilia
b. Voyeurism
c. Sadism
d. Masochism

28.	A patient tells the midwife that she uses a mechanical barrier for birth control. Which of the following methods fits that category?
Correct. a
Rationale. The diaphragm is the only barrier method of contraception listed; all the other methods are hormonal.

a.	Diaphragm
b. Oral contraceptive pills
c. Depo-Provera
d. Evra patch

29.	Prior to administering an enema, the midwife’s first  action should be to:
Correct. d
Rationale. The key word in this stem is first. Each of these options includes a step that is part of the procedure for administering an enema. You must decide which option is the first step among the four options presented. Before you can teach a patient, collect equipment, or actually administer the enema, you need to know the type of enema ordered. The type of enema will influence the other steps of the procedure. If option A were different, such as use medical asepsis to dispose of contaminated articles, then the correct answer among these four options would be option D. you can choose the first step of a procedure only from among the options presented.

a.	Verify the physician’s order
b.	Collect the appropriate equipment
c. Arrange for the bathroom to the empty
d. Inform the patient about the procedure

30.	The best time for menstruating women to perform a breast self-examination is:
Correct. c
Rationale. A few days after the menstrual period, the breasts have the least amount of fluids and are less tender. This may improve the accuracy and comfort of self-examination.

a.	right before the menstrual period
b.	during the menstrual period
c. a few days after the menstrual period
d. 14 days after the menstrual period

31.	The midwife is instructing the family of a homebound bedridden client in the general prevention of pressure sores. Measures to include in the teaching include:
Correct. a
Rationale. Promoting lifting rather than dragging when turning or moving the client will reduce friction and shearing. This will assist in preventing pressure sores. The caregiver should massage around but not directly over pressure sites. The client’s position should be changed every 2 hours. Soiled areas should be cleaned with warm not hot water.

a.	promoting lifting rather than dragging when turning the client
c. changing the client’s position every 4 hours
b.	massaging directly over pressure sites
d. cleaning soiled areas with hot water

32.	All of the following are good sources of vitamin A, except:
Correct. a
Rationale. The main sources of vitamin A are yellow and green vegetables (such as carrots, sweet potatoes, squash, spinach, collard greens, broccoli and cabbage) and yellow fruits (such as apricots, and cantaloupe). Animal sources include liver, kidneys, cream, butter and egg yolks.

a.	White potatoes
b. Carrots
c. Apricots
d. Egg yolks

33.	The best way to instill eye drops is to:
Correct. a
Rationale. Having the patient look upward reduces blinking and protects the corneal. Instilling drops in the center of the lower lid promotes absorption because the drops are less likely to run into the nasolacrimal duct or out of the eye.

a.	Instruct the patient to look upward, and drop the medication into the center of the lower lid
b.	Instruct the patient to look ahead, and drop the medication into the center of the lower lid
c.	Drop the medication into the inner canthus regardless of eyes position
d.	Drop the medication into the center of the canthus regardless of eye position

34.	Which of the following is the correct procedure in giving Vitamin A to a child?
Correct. c
Rationale. vitamin A capsule is a soft gel and available in capsules with tip and neck.

a.	cut the middle portion of the capsule and squeeze it in the mouth
b.	place the squeezed content of the capsule in a teaspoon and give it by mouth
c.	cut the tip of the capsule and squeeze it in the mouth
d.	place the whole capsule in the mouth and ask the child to swallow it with a big gulp of water or place it inside a ripe banana

35.	A pregnant mother is very pale and is easily tired.  She is diagnosed by her doctor to have Iron deficiency anemia.  The midwife may advise which of the following foods as rich in Iron, but:
Correct. a
Rationale. milk is NOT a good source of Iron, unless it is fortified.  Spaghetti, egg yolk and liver are good sources of Iron.

a.	milk
b. liver
c. egg yolk
d. spaghetti

36.	Of the components below, which is NOT a component of the infection chain?
Correct. d
Rationale. d – a, b and c are all components of the infection chain.  It includes all in this order: infectious agents, reservoir, portal of exit, mode of transmission, portal of entry, and a susceptible host.  Handwashing technique is a part of medical asepsis and is a way of preventing infection.

a.	causative organism and host
c. portal of entry and the portal of exit
b.	reservoir and mode of transmission
d. handwashing technique

37.	The actions below in taking the BP are correct, except:
Correct. d
Rationale. Use the diaphragm of the stethoscope. A, B, C are all correct procedures.

a.	place the sphygmomanometer at the eye level
b.	BP cuff should cover at least 2/3 of the arm between elbow and the shoulder joints
c.	The right size of the cuff for the adult is 4 ¾--5 ½ inches side and about 7-8 inches for obese clients.
d.	Use the bell of the stethoscope.

38.	Lacerations that require extensive repair known as complete tear which involves anterior rectal wall is:
Correct. d
Rationale. empty

a.	1st degree
b. 2nd degree
c.  3rd degree
d. 4th degree

39.	The midwife should instruct the client to eat which of the following foods to obtain the best supply of vitamin B12?
Correct. c
Rationale. good sources of vitamin B12 include meats and dairy products. Whole grains are a good source of thiamine. Green leafy vegetables are good sources of niacin, folate, and carotenoids, (precursors of vitamin A). Broccoli and Brussels sprouts are good sources of ascorbic acid.

a.	Whole grains
b. Green leafy vegetables
c. Meats and dairy products
d. Broccoli and Brussels sprouts

40.	A midwife is assigned to care for Mr. Padilla, a Muslim patient. When the midwife enters the room, he realizes Mr. Padilla is praying. The midwife should:
Correct. b
Rationale. empty

a.	Stay in the room until Mr. Padilla is finished with his prayers.
b.	Quietly leave the room and give Mr. Padilla privacy to pray.
c.	Interrupt Mr. Padilla and tell him it is time for his care to be given.
d.	Tell Mr. Padilla that he cannot pray while he is in the hospital.

41.	Mrs. Dionisia is 48-year old. During a routine physical her blood pressure is noted at 180/90. She fears she is hypertensive. The midwife would explain that the diagnosis of hypertension is made when there is sustained elevated blood pressure of over:
Correct. b
Rationale. empty

a.	160/100
b. 140/90
c. 130/70
d. 120/80

42.	When documenting a patient’s blood pressure, the systolic pressure is recorded as the point at which:
Correct. a
Rationale. empty

a.	The first Korotkoff sound appears.
b.	The second Korotkoff sound appears.
c. The fourth Korotkoff sound appears.
d. The fifth Korotkoff sound appears.

43.	The midwife prepares to irrigate a patient’s wound. The primary reason for performing this procedure is to:
Correct. a
Rationale. empty

a.	Remove debris from the wound.
b.	Decrease scar formation.
c. Improve circulation from the wound.
d. Decrease irritation from the wound drainage.

44.	The correct procedure for the wet-to-dry dressing method is to:
Correct. d
Rationale. empty

a.	Place dry gauze into the wound and remove it when it gets wet.
b.	Medicate the patient for pain after you change the dressing.
c.	Complete this type of dressing change just once a day.
d.	Place moist gauze into the wound and remove it when it’s dry.

45.	Ms. Cruz, is a 72-year-old patient with a stroke who has slid to the foot of the bed. To use appropriate body mechanics, the midwife maintains a wide base of support and faces the patient in the direction of the movement, thus allowing the midwife to:
Correct. c
Rationale. empty

a.	Use her back muscles
b. Use her large muscles across the scapula
c. Exert less physical effort
d. Use her gluteal muscles.

46.	The midwife explains to the patient that the log-rolling technique will be used to help the patient change position by stating:
Correct. d
Rationale. empty

a.	“Logrolling will help you keep your hips slightly flexed toward your chest.”
b.	“By having you dangle your legs at the bedside, you will be more comfortable.”
c.	“Because of your injury, it is extremely important to that the head of your bed remain up at all times.”
d.	“It is important to keep your neck and spine in straight alignment while we help you move onto your side.”

47.	An 11-month-old infant is admitted with a tympanic temperature of 1050F. The physician orders a tepid sponge bath. The midwife knows that the purpose of the tepid sponge bath is to:
Correct. a
Rationale. empty

a.	Reduce temperature in febrile patients.
b.	Cleanse the patient’s groin and axillary areas.
c. Stimulate circulation to the skin.
d. Calm and relax the patient.

48.	Preoperatively, the physician orders “enemas until clear.” The maximum number of enemas the midwife should give is:
Correct. b
Rationale. empty

a.	Two
b. Three
c. Five
d. Unlimited

49.	Factors that can affect normal body temperature include:
Correct. d
Rationale. Factors that can affect the client’s body temperature include:
AGE: The temperature of the very young is labile because of immature physiological control mechanisms; and that of older persons is labile because of deteriorating control mechanisms.
DIURNAL VARIATIONS: Body temperature is lowest at 1-4 AM and peaks at 4-6 PM.
ENVIRONMENT EXTREMES: These can lower or raise body temperature accordingly.
EXERCISE: This raises the basal metabolic rate and can also increase body temperature.

a.	Diet, blood pressure, time of day.
b.	Medications taken, mood, health status, exercise.
c. Smoking, environment, weight, medications.
d. Age, diurnal variations, environment, exercise.

50.	A midwife is going to remove an indwelling catheter from an 80-year-old client. The nurse’s first action is to:
Correct. d
Rationale. The first step of any procedure is to explain it to the client even if he or she is confused.

a.	Deflate the balloon
b.	Disconnect the bag and tubing
c. Clamp off the tubing
d. Explain the procedure to the client

51.	One method of determining the IM injection site in the gluteal muscle is to imagine that it is divided into the four equal quadrants. The injection site is in which quadrant?
Correct. b
Rationale. This is the quadrant without major blood vessels or nerves.

a.	Inner upper quadrant
b. Upper outer quadrant
c.Lower outer quadrant
d.Lower inner quadrant

52.	A midwife is going to give an SC injection. An appropriate needle length and size is:
Correct. d
Rationale. SC needle length is ½ -5/8 inch. Acceptable gauges are 25, 26, or 27.

a.	1 inch, 25 gauge
b.	1 inch, 20 gauge
c.	1 ½ inches, 18 gauge
d.	5/8 inch, 26 gauge

53.	In which of the following situations is taking the temperature orally contraindicated?
Correct. d
Rationale. Taking an oral temperature reading is contraindicated in older, confused clients because of potential injury.

a.	A 45-year-old client with a duodenal ulcer
b.	A client who has recently suffered a heart attack
c.	An adult client with an elevated temperature
d.	A confused older client

54.	Which of the following groups is most susceptible to extreme changes in environmental temperature?
Correct. b
Rationale. A newborn infant’s body temperature-regulating mechanism is immature, and infants are greatly influenced by environmental temperatures and must be protected from extreme changes.

a.	Toddlers
b.	Newborn infants
c.	Young adults
d.	Adolescents

55.	In which client care situation on a general care unit should surgical asepsis be used?
Correct. b
Rationale. Urinary catheterization is an invasive procedure, and surgical asepsis is crucial to prevent introduction of bacteria and a subsequent urinary infection.

a.	Before removing a dressing
b.	When inserting a urinary catheter
c.	When administering a saline enema
d.	When giving perineal care

56.	The “five rights” for safe administration of medications are:
Correct. c
Rationale. The five rights are the essential guidelines for safe administration of medications.

a.	Right drug, right dose, right client, right amount, right route.
b.	Right drug, right client, right order, right route, right time.
c.	Right drug, right dose, right time, right route, right client.
d.	Right client, right drug, right strength, right time, right documentation.

57.	In which order should the midwife remove personal protective equipment (PPE)?
Correct. c
Rationale. The sequence for removing PPE is intended to limit opportunities for self-contamination. The gloves are considered the most contaminated pieces of PPE and are removed first. Goggles or face shields are next because they are the most cumbersome and interfere with the removal of other PPE. The gown is next, followed by the mask or respirator. PPE should be removed inside of the client’s room with the exception of the respirator, which needs to be removed outside of the client’s room to prevent breathing in airborne contaminants.

a.	Mask, gloves, goggles, gown.
b.	Goggles, mask, gloves, gown.
c.	Gloves, goggles, gown, mask.
d.	Gown, mask, gloves, googles.

58.	An accurate blood pressure of the client can be obtained by:
Correct. c
Rationale. empty

a.	A cuff that covers the upper one-third of the client’s forearm
b.	Positioning the cuff approximately 4 inches above the client’s antecubital space
c.	Using a cuff that is wide enough to cover two-thirds of the client’s arm
d.	Identifying the Korotkoff sounds and taking the systolic reading at 10 mmHg after the first sounds

59.	During labor, epidural anesthesia may be used because:
Correct. d
Rationale. empty

a.	Both sensory and motor fibers of the uterus arise from the seventh and eighth thoracic vertebrae
b.	Both sensory and motor fibers of the uterus arise from the last lumbar vertebrae
c.	Pain motor tracts from the cervix and vagina passes through the pudendal nerve and the lower fibers from the lower motor neurons before transmitting to the brain for interpretation of pain
d.	The pain of uterine contractions is carried by the eleventh and twelfth thoracic nerves, and the motor fibers to the uterus arise from the seventh and eighth thoracic vertebrae

60.	Fever can cause which of the following problems?
Correct. a
Rationale. The diaphoretic response to fever is to bring fluid to the surface areas which have increased temperature, creating a diaphoretic state and thus, a loss of body fluids.

a.	Fluid loss
b.	Hypokalemia
c.	Hyponatremia
d.	Fluid overload

61.	Following surgery, the surgeon orders Foley catheter to be inserted. Which of the following will the midwife carry out first before inserting the catheter?
Correct. c
Rationale. empty

a.	Clean the perineum from front to back
b.	Check the catheter for patency
c.	Explain to the client that she will feel a slight, temporary discomfort
d.	Arrange sterile items on sterile field

62.	You are transferring a patient from wheelchair to the bed. You should:
Correct. a
Rationale. Pulling the patient towards the nurse will lower the workload force. Pivoting on unaffected leg offers strength to support the affected limb while pivoting to the bed.

a.	pull the patient toward you, pivot on unaffected limb
b.	pull the patient toward you, pivot on affected limb
c.	push the patient towards the bed, pivot on affected limb
d.	stand patient on both legs and push toward the bed

63.	Patient education entails:
Correct. b
Rationale. Patient education entails giving information that is accurate and understandable and emphasizing pain management interventions. Also the patient should be involved in their pain management.

a.	telling the patient everything about the disease, what is happening in the course of the disease, and the outcome
b.	giving information to the patient that is accurate and understandable
c.	telling the patient that the pain they experience may not be real
d.	giving the patient pain medication when it is experienced

64.	All of the following behaviors are barriers to learning, EXCEPT:
Correct. c
Rationale. a teacher should always try to involve the learner in the discussion. Too many technical words, loosely structured settings, and overly detailed explanation act as barriers to learning. The learner feels uncomfortable or confused and becomes easily distracted.

a.	Constant use of technical words
b.	Loosely structured teaching sessions
c. Drawing the person into the discussion
d. Detailed, lengthy explanations

65.	The midwife is preparing to administer a sponge bath to an infant with a high fever. Administration of the bath should include:
Correct. c
Rationale. Wet clothes should be applied to forehead, ankles, wrists, axilla and groin. These are the areas where blood circulates closest to the skin surface. If alcohol is used, small amounts are indicated. Large amounts of alcohol are very drying to the skin and toxic to inhale. The temperature should be 85-100 degrees F. Rapid heat loss is desired so large areas of body are sponged.

a.	large amounts of alcohol to increase evaporation of heat
b.	adjustment of the water temperature to 60-70 0F
c.	wet clothes applied to all areas where blood circulates close to skin surfaces
d.	small areas of the body sponged at a time to avoid rapid heat loss

66.	The midwife should instruct a patient who has a diagnosis of folic acid deficiency anemia to increase intake of which of the following foods?
Correct. b
Rationale. Foods high in folic acid include green and yellow vegetables, liver, citrus fruits, whole grains, yeast and legumes.

a.	Dairy products
b.	Green, leafy vegetables
c.	Citrus juices
d.	Fish and poultry

67.	The midwife is caring for a woman who is one-day post radical mastectomy. What must be included in the care plan?
Correct. a
Rationale. the arm of the affected side should be elevated for 24 to 48 hours post-surgery. It is elevated and placed at a right angle to the chest.

a.	Elevate the arm on the operative side for 24 to 48 hours
b.	Maintain complete bed rest for 24 to 48 hours
c.	Do not allow the client to perform any self-care activities for 48 hours
d.	Maintain the client NPO for 24 hours

68.	An adult comes to the clinic because she has a productive cough. She smokes two packs of cigarettes a day and has a family history of lung cancer and emphysema. Using the principles of health promotion, the midwife would make what interpretation of the client’s behavior? She is:
Correct. b
Rationale. there are four principles of health promotion: self-responsibility, nutrition, stress management, and exercise. Self-responsibility includes avoiding high risk behaviors such as abusing alcohol or drugs, overeating, driving while intoxicated, engaging in sexual practices which put the client at risk for disease, and smoking. Although any of answers could be true, this is the only answer which addresses the question of health promotion principles.

a.	Using denial to deal with being at high risk for lung cancer
b.	Not assuming self- responsibility for her health
c.	Exhibiting a laissez-faire attitude toward smoking and her risk of cancer
d.	Demonstrating passive suicidal tendencies

69.	The midwife is caring for a client who is receiving IV fluids. Which observation by the midwife indicates the IV has infiltrated?
Correct. c
Rationale. Coldness, pallor and swelling around the insertion site are the best indicators that the fluid has infiltrated into subcutaneous tissue.

a.	Pain at the site
b.	A change in flow rate
c. Coldness around the insertion site
d. Redness around the insertion site

70.	The midwife knows which of the following is true about immunity?
Correct. c
Rationale. Antibodies or immunoglobulins are produced by the B cells and are part of the body’s plasma protein

a.	Antibody-mediated defense occurs through the T cell system
b.	Cellular immunity is mediated by antibodies produced by the B cells
c.	Lymphocytes increase with an allergic response

71.	An adult is on a clear liquid diet. Which food item can be offered?
Correct. b
Rationale. Plain gelatins can be given on a clear liquid diet, as well as tea, coffee, ginger ale, or lemon lime soda

a.	Milk
b. Jello
c. Orange juice
d. Ice cream

72.	An adult is being taught about a healthy diet. How can the food pyramid help guide the client on his diet?
Correct. c
Rationale. The pyramid helps to guide the client in choosing a variety of foods to obtain the nutrients needed. It also aids in eating more of some groups (bread, cereal, rice and pasta) and less of others (fats, oil, and sweets)

a.	By indicating exactly how many servings of each group to eat
b.	By calculating how many calories the client should have
c.	By suggesting daily food choices
d.	By dividing the food into four basic groups

73.	Which food choice contains the highest kilocalorie?
Correct. b
Rationale. Bacon contains the highest kilocalories, as it is from the group group. Fats yield 9 kcal/g, whereas the other choices, from the carbohydrates and protein group only yield 4 kcal/g.

a.	Apple
b. Bacon
c. Chicken
d. Bread

74.	The midwife knows that a client understands a low residue diet when he selects which of the following from a menu?
Correct. a
Rationale. A low residue diet includes rice, lean meats and eggs

a.	Rice and lean chicken
b. Strawberry pie
c. Pasta with vegetables
d. Tuna casserole

75.	The midwife is inserting an intravenous (IV) line into a client. After piercing the skin and entering the vein, the midwife would refrain from advancing the catheter if which of the following were noted?
Correct. b
Rationale. The nurse would refrain from advancing the catheter if mild resistance is noted. The other data are normal. The IV should be inserted bevel side up. The client should not experience pain, and a backflow is normal on insertion, indicating that the vein has been pierced.

a.	Blood backflow into the IV catheter
b.	Mild resistance with advancement
c. No reports of client discomfort
d. The IV catheter was inserted bevel side up

76.	A client is to obtain a clean-catch urine specimen. Which statement by the client demonstrates a lack of understanding regarding the procedure?
Correct. b
Rationale. All of the steps are correct except for the one in Answer 2. The initial stream of urine contains bacteria from the distal urethra and urinary meatus, so it should be discarded as contaminated.

a.	"I should use all of the towelettes in the kit and use each only once."
b.	"Urinate into the cup as soon as I start to go."
c.	"I don't have to fill the cup. Just get an ounce or two."
d.	"Put the cover on right away, without touching the inside of the cover or the cup."

77.	What type of fever would the midwife document if the client had a wide range of temperature fluctuations over normal for a period of 24 hours?
Correct. b
Rationale. A remittent fever widely fluctuates above normal over a 24-hour period. An intermittent fever rises above normal between periods of normal or subnormal temperatures. A relapsing fever is short febrile periods of a few days interspersed with 1-2 days of normal temperature. A constant fever remains above normal.

a.	Intermittent
b.	Remittent
c.	Relapsing
d.	Constant

78.	Which technique is best for assessing the respirations of a 3-year-old?
Correct. c
Rationale. A child who knows respirations are being counted may alter the respiratory effort or become upset. Observing the rise and fall of the abdomen without telling the child is the most accurate method.

a.	Use a stethoscope and auscultate the lungs.
b.	Place one hand against the chest when counting.
c.	Observe the rise and fall of the abdomen.
d.	Tell the child you will check his breathing.

79.	In which of the following clients is a rectal temperature most usually contraindicated?
Correct. a
Rationale. Taking a rectal temperature is contraindicated in clients with myocardial infarction. It is believed that inserting a rectal thermometer can produce vagal stimulation, which can cause myocardial damage. Not all adhere to this belief, but nonetheless the practice is discouraged.

a.	client who has had a myocardial infarction
b.	client with Parkinson's disease
c.	client who is prone to seizures
d.	client with neuropathology associated with diabetes

80.	When taking a radial pulse for half a minute, the midwife finds it to be irregular. Which of the following would be best for the midwife to do next?
Correct. c
Rationale. Assessment of the apical pulse is indicated for clients whose peripheral pulse is irregular.

a.	Take the radial pulse for one minute.
b.	Check the carotid pulse to see if it is irregular.
c.	Assess the apical pulse.
d.	Chart the radial pulse and the irregularities.

81.	The midwife is preparing a presentation at a senior citizens center on the leading cause of accidents in older adults. What topic should the midwife concentrate on presenting?
Correct. c
Rationale. Falls are the leading cause of accidents in older adults. The other answers are not leading causes in the older adult.

a.	Automobile accidents
b.	Accidental medication overdose
c.	Falls
d.	Home fires

82.	Which statement by a father indicates understanding of safety measures for his 3-year-old son?
Correct. a
Rationale. Preschool-age children are active and clumsy. The stick in an ice cream bar could injure the child if he fell. Parents should always have their eyes on a child in a swimming pool. A child should never be left alone, even when asleep. The child should be helped to cross the street.

a.	"I shouldn't give him ice cream bars on a stick."
b.	"He knows how to swim, so I usually read a book by the pool."
c.	"I can leave him for a few minutes only when he is asleep."
d.	"He can cross the street by himself to play with his best friend."

83.	A position that puts an unconscious client at greatest risk for aspirating secretions is:
Correct. a
Rationale. Supine position puts client at greatest risk for aspirating secretions. Lateral, Sims', and prone positions allow secretions to drain from the mouth.

a.	Supine
b.	Lateral
c.	Sims'
d.	Prone

84.	Two midwives plan to move a client with weakness into a wheelchair. As they prepare to make the transfer, one of the midwives correctly instructs the client to:
Correct. d
Rationale. The client should push up from the bed using her arms on the count of three. The IV pole is unstable, and may roll away from the client. A client should face in the direction in which she is moving. The nurses' feet need to be in front of the client's.

a.	Use the IV pole as a lever when rising from the bed
b.	Push up from the bed using her arms on the count of three
c.	Hold on to the side rails facing the bottom of the bed before standing
d.	Put feet behind the nurses' feet

85.	Which of the following techniques imposes the greatest stress on the midwife's back?
Correct. d
Rationale. All of the answers may impose a stress on the nurse's back. Answer 4 imposes the greatest risk because of the potential for twisting and working in a small place.

a.	Lifting with the large muscles of the legs
b.	Helping clients ambulate
c.	Turning immobilized clients in bed
d.	Transferring clients in and out of bed

86.	Mr. Aviso is preparing the things that he will need for performing bed bath to his patient. He checks the water temperature. The rationale for this is:
Correct. a
Rationale. warm water is comfortable and relaxing to the patient. It also stimulates circulation and provides for more effective cleansing. TAYLOR’S CLINICAL NSG. SKILLS, P. 212.

a.	Warm water stimulates circulation
b.	Warm water is not indicated
c.	Cold water promotes comfort
d.	Cold water facilitates proper circulation of the client’s body

87.	As Blessila inserted the catheter, she noted that no urine flowed into the catheter. She identified that the catheter is in the vaginal orifice. What should the midwife do?
Correct. d
Rationale. if no urine flow is obtained and the nurse notes that the catheter is in the vaginal orifice, leave the catheter in place as a landmark. Obtain a fresh sterile gloves and new catheter. And attempt to place new catheter directly above misplaced catheter. TAYLOR’S CLINICAL NSG. SKILLS, P.476.

a.	Remove the catheter from the vaginal orifice and insert it into the urethral orifice
b.	Remove the catheter and rinse it with a plain NSS then insert it into the urethral orifice
c.	Discard the catheter and obtain a new catheter
d.	Leave the catheter in place and obtain a new sterile gloves and catheter

88.	This is the application of statistical methods & techniques to the study of vital facts, such as those concerning births, marriages, deaths & illness?
Correct. a
Rationale. Statistics
Biostatistics
Mortality rates

a.	Mortality rates
c. Statistics
b.	Vital statistics
d. Biostatistics

89.	This is one of the most sensitive indices of the health conditions of the general population:
Correct. d
Rationale. empty

a.	Crude death rate                       c. Crude birth rate
b.	Mortality rate                            d. Infant mortality rate

90.	Which of the following is not true about Primary Health Care  as identified in Alma Ata conference:
Correct. d
Rationale. D – it includes the full participation & active involvement of the COMMUNITY towards the development of a self-reliant people capable of achieving an acceptable level of health & well-being.  It recognizes the interrelationship between health & overall socio-economic development.  It is a practical approach to the effective provision of health services that are community based, accessible, acceptable & sustainable at a cost which the community & the government can afford. (LOI 949, Oct. 19, 1979.)
PHC – as identified in Alma Ata, as the “key in achieving an acceptable level of health through out the world in the forseeable future as part of social development & in the spirit of social justice”. ( Declaration of WHO Alma Ata, 1978)

a.	As the key  in achieving an acceptable level of health  throughout the world
b.	As a part of social development & spirit of social justice.
c.	As a practical approach to effective provision of health services
d.	It includes the full participation & active involvement of the government towards development of a self-reliant people.

91.	Which of the following is not TRUE about PHC?
Correct. c
Rationale. Health workers should be facilitators of actions of individuals, families & communities. Lay persons & health workers are essential in PHC.

a.	Health workers must act as facilitators of actions of individuals, families & community.
b.	That people themselves should be involved in planning, implementing, & having say about their own health & healthcare.
c.	The people should be the facilitators of actions
d.	Health workers should recognize their roles as partners of the people in becoming self-reliant

92.	Which of the following strategy is used in implementing the Primary Health Care delivery in depressed & underserved communities to become self-reliant?
Correct. a
Rationale. COPAR has been the strategy used, as a continuous & sustained process of educating the people  to let them understand  & develop their critical awareness of the existing conditions; it is working with the people  collectively & efficiently; discover their immediate & long term proble3ms & mobilizing the people to develop their capabilities & readiness to respond & take action on their immediate needs towards the solution of their long term problems.
COPAR for Community Development by Sr. C. Jimenez pp.42

a.	COPAR
b.	RHCDS
c. IMCI
d. Sentrong Sigla

93.	Five stages of organizing a community are:
Correct. a
Rationale. PHN in the Phil  pp. 55 – 57

a.	Community Analysis, Design & Initiation, Implementation, Program Maintenance- Consolidation, Dissemination-Reassessment
b.	Design & Initiation, Community Analysis, Implementation, Consolidation, Dissemination
c.	Consolidation, Community Analysis, Design & Initiation, Implementation & Dissemination
d.	Community Analysis, Consolidation, Design & Initiation, Implementation & Dissemination

94.	This is an important strategy in the accreditation approach of the broader Philippine Quality in Health Program (QIP)
Correct. a
Rationale. this is one of the SS level 1 standard/function of RHU and health center must perform. This function ensures that the health facility is approximately equipped and has sufficient manpower, organized procedures to efficiently and effectively and effectively promote core health programs. D- this is the highest level of certification awarded to health facility.  (PHN IN THE PHILIPPINES, 10TH ED, P. 330)

a.	Sentro Sigla Certification
b.	Quality Improvement
c.	Facility and System Standards
d.	Award for Excellence

95.	The part of the fetus that enters the pelvic inlet first and leads through the birth canal is referred to as the fetal:
Correct. a
Rationale. Presentation can be vertex, breech, footling, brow and so on.

a.	Presentation
b.	Attitude
c.	Station
d.	Molding

96.	During the 4th stage of labor, the midwife should be able to palpate the client’s fundus:
Correct. d
Rationale. 4th stage includes the first 1 – 4 hours after delivery. Uterus is palpated @ the level of umbilicus.
Assess:  BP, RR, PR, lochia, perineum per agency    protocol usually . Q 15 minutes for 1 hour; q 30 min for 2 hours.

a.	2 cm above the umbilicus
b.	To the right of the umbilicus
c. 2 cm below the umbilicus
d. at the level of the umbilicus

97.	If the client is primigravida, the midwife would anticipate that her second stage of labor would probably last:
Correct. b
Rationale. Multipara- average 20 minutes (range 5-30 mins)
Primipara- average of 50 minutes (range 30 minutes-3 hours)

a.	20 to 30 mins
b.	50 to 60 mins
c.   2 hours
d.   3 hours

98.	The vagina is a hostile environment for sperm. What characteristic of semen protects sperm from the vaginal environment?
Correct. b
Rationale. The vagina has an acidic pH, an environment that is hostile to sperm. Therefore, semen has an alkaline pH, which protects sperm from the acid of the vagina. Testosterone is a testicular hormone that influences sperm development and maturation. The seminiferous tubules are the site within the testes in which male gametes are formed.

a.	Acidic fluid
b.	Alkaline fluid
c.   Presence of testosterone
d.   Secretions from seminiferous tubules

99.	You are caring for a woman in labor. The doctor is concerned that the uterus might rupture. Which part of the uterus requires the closest assessment because it is the thinnest part of the uterus?
Correct. d
Rationale. The isthmus is called the lower uterine segment during pregnancy. This is the thinnest area of the uterus, making it the most vulnerable site for uterine rupture.

a.	Corpus
b.	Fundus
c.   Inner cervical os
d.   Lower uterine segment

100.	A woman with pelvic support disorder reports all of the following. Which statement by the woman should alert the midwife to instruct the woman to come in immediately for examination by a physician?
Correct. a
Rationale. Cloudy urine may indicate a bladder infection. This condition would need immediate evaluation and treatment by a physician to prevent complications. If she forgot to do Kegal exercises, the appropriate reply would be to go ahead and do them now. Urine escaping during coughing is a symptom associated with a cystocele but does not require immediate intervention. Pessaries should be removed periodically and washed. If the woman forgets to reapply it, then she should reinsert it when she remembers.

a.	“My urine is cloudy.”
b.	“I forgot to do my Kegel exercises today.”
c.	“Every time I cough a little bit of urine comes out.”
d.	“I took my pessary out to wash it, and forgot to put it back in.”

