CATEGORY: MIDWIFERY
TOPIC: MIDWIFE-OBG
TOPIC_CODE: MIDWIFE-OBG

INSTRUCTION: Select the correct answer for each of the following questions. Mark only one answer for each item by shading the box corresponding to letter of your choice on the answer sheet provided.
STRICTLY NO ERASURES ALLOWED.

MULTIPLE CHOICE:

I. Post Test

1.	The hypothalamus begins the menstrual cycle with the production of which hormones?
Correct. b
Rationale. The hypothalamus stimulates the release of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone, and it, in turn stimulates FSH.

a.	FSH
b. GnRH
c. Estrogen
d.Progesterone

2.	The luteal phase begins immediately following the follicular phase and lasts for 14 days. What event occurs at the end of the luteal phase?
Correct. c
Rationale. As the corpus luteum secrets estrogen and progesterone, it takes about a week for degeneration to begin, and then another week for menstrual flow to start.

a.	Ovulation
b. Pregnancy
c. Menstruation
d. Estrogen production

3.	During the follicular phase, FSH stimulates the graafian follicle to mature. In a regular 28-day phase cycle, this phase lasts:
Correct. c
Rationale. This phase may vary if the regular cycle is longer or shorter than 28 days, but generally it lasts for 14 days.

a.	10 days
b. 12 days
c. 14 days
d. 26 days

4.	Which pituitary hormone is responsible for ovulation?
Correct. c
Rationale. The luteinizing hormone is produced by the anterior pituitary gland and stimulates maturation of the graafian follicle, ovulation, and ultimately the formation of the corpus luteum.

a.	GnRH
b. FSH
c. LH
d. Estrogen

5.	The functional life span of the corpus luteum is ___ days.
Correct. c
Rationale. empty

a.	10
b. 20
c. 14
d. 7

6.	Which of the following is not a cause of persistent corpus luteum?
Correct. a
Rationale. empty

a.	unruptured graafian follicle
b. early missed abortion
c. incomplete abortion
d. normal intrauterine pregnancy

7.	The endoderm gives rise to the following EXCEPT:
Correct. d
Rationale. empty

a.	thyroid gland
b. respiratory tract
c. GIT
d. Urinary tract

8.	A deep pelvis with straight sacrum is:
Correct. b
Rationale.
Features		Gynecoid	Android		Anthropoid	Platypelloid
Brim			rounded	Heart-shaped	Long oval	Kidney-shaped
Fore pelvis		generous	Narrow		narrowed	Wide
Side walls		Straight		Convergent	Divergent	Divergent
Ischial spines		Blunt 		Prominent	Blunt		Blunt
Sciatic notch		Rounded	Narrow		Wide		Wide
Sub pubic angle		90		<90		> 90		> 90
Sacrum			curved		Straight		Long, concave	flat

a.	Gynecoid
b. Android
c. platypelloid
d. Anthropoid

9.	Which characteristics of cervical secretion facilitate sperm penetration during circulation?
Correct. b
Rationale. Spinnbarkeit is the ability of the cervical mucus to stretch at a distance of 1 inch before it breaks. The cervical mucus is abundant, thin and transparent. Ferning is due to the presence of estrogen in the cervical mucus. Option C is incorrect the mucus should be thin not thick.

a.	Ferning or arborization
b. Manual spinnbarkeit
c. Thickness of mucus
d. Bended or cellular appearance


10.	The shortest time from ovulation to fertilization:
Correct. d
Rationale. Fertilization occur is there was intercourse 48 hours before or 24 hours after ovulation.

a.	5
b. 10
c. 2
d. 15

11.	The pregnant patient is advised to take ferrous sulfate. What instructions does the midwife give the patient about taking this medication?
Correct. b
Rationale. Iron is very poorly absorbed even under the best circumstances. However, food will increase the absorption about 30%. When taken with Vitamin C, such as orange juice, the absorption is considered to be even higher.

a.	Take with milk to increase absorption
b.	Take with food to increase absorption
c. Mix with juice to disguise taste
d. Take with water only in the morning


12.	A pregnant patient is practicing pica. What does it mean?
Correct. a
Rationale. Pica is a craving that may be culturally acquired. It interferes with absorption of and utilization of nutrients and can cause an intestinal obstruction. The cause is not known.

a.	She is eating non-foot things such as dirt
b.	She is refusing any medication
c. She is avoiding all dairy products
d. She is planning natural childbirth

13.	Before performing Leopold’s maneuver, the midwife explains to the pregnant patient what she will be doing. The midwife states the primary purpose of this assessment is to:
Correct. b
Rationale. The midwife can determine the position of the fetus by performing Leopold’s maneuvers. It is important to lactate the fetus’s back because fetal heart tones are best heard there. The midwife can also estimate size with Leopold’s maneuvers.

a.	Determine the length of the fetus
b.	Determine the position of the fetus
c. Locate the head of the fetus
d. Estimate the length of labor.


14.	The pregnant woman is somewhat distressed about developing muddy brown blotches on the face. The midwife explains this:
Correct. c
Rationale. The “mask of pregnancy” or chloasma, are deposits of pigments that decrease and finally disappear following delivery.

a.	Indicates potential complications
b.	Signals hormonal shifts
c. Is a normal condition called chloasma
d. Is a highly abnormal condition


15.	During pregnancy there is an increased possibility of weakness of the walls of certain blood vessels. What common complication does this cause?
Correct. b
Rationale. Due to the pressure created by the gravid uterus on the great veins located in the pelvis, varicose veins are common during pregnancy.

a.	Weak abdominal muscles
b. Varicose veins
c. Hypertension
d. Urinary frequency

16.	What are the blood vessels in the umbilical cord that provide for fetal circulations?
Correct. d
Rationale. The umbilical cord consists of two arteries and one vein. The vein provides oxygen and nutrients while the arteries pump oxygen-depleted blood back to the placenta for processing.

a.	One artery and two veins
b. One artery and one vein
c. Two arteries and two veins
d. Two arteries and one vein

17.	Why is iron prescribed during pregnancy?
Correct. c
Rationale. Expanding blood volume during pregnancy can cause a decrease in hematocrit.

a.	To prevent drop in WBC
c. To prevent a drop in the hematocrit
b.	To prevent shock during delivery
d. To provide iron storage in the placenta

18.	During an initial vaginal exam, the midwife assesses a dark blue discoloration of the vaginal mucous membrane. This presumptive sign is:
Correct. c
Rationale. Chadwick’s sign usually occurs toward the end of the fifth month of pregnancy.

a.	Ballottement
b. Quickening
c. Chadwick’s sign
d. Kernig’s sign

19.	This parent states folic acid is a strange name for a vitamin. “Why do I need it?” The midwife explains that this B vitamin is especially needed during pregnancy because it:
Correct. c
Rationale. In addition to being instrumental in the formation of red blood cells, it is essential for DNA production and cell growth.

a.	Aids in maternal circulation
b.	Assists in growth of bones and teeth
c. Aids in coagulation of red blood cells
d. Is essential for cell and RBC formation

20.	A patient is pregnant for the 3rd time. She has a 2-year-old son and had spontaneous abortion at 10 weeks gestation. The correct gravida and para for this patient is:
Correct. c
Rationale. A patient is pregnant for the third time; therefore, she is gravida III. Having a 2-year-old son counts as parity. Having had a spontaneous or elective abortion (less than 24 weeks) does not cunt as a para; therefore, she is para I. These options are incorrect as seen in rationale (C).

a.	Gravida II, para I
b. Gravida II, para II
c. Gravida III, para I
d. Gravida III, para II

21.	A 16-year-old who is 20 weeks pregnant has attended a prenatal nutrition course at her high school. The next day, the midwife knows she needs more instruction regarding proper protein intake because she has chosen the following for lunch:
Correct. d
Rationale. there is very little protein in a bacon, lettuce, and tomato sandwich and an apple. A – poultry is a good source of protein as ice cream. B – meat and puddings are recommended and good sources of protein. C – cheese and yogurt are good sources of protein.

a.	Roast chicken sandwich and ice cream cone
b.	Roast beef sandwich and vanilla pudding
c. Fruit salad with cottage cheese and frozen yogurt
d. Bacon, lettuce, and tomato sandwich and an apple

22.	A pregnant woman is diagnosed as being anemic. Her physician has told her to eat an iron-rich diet and to take iron supplements BID. What instruction should the midwife plan to give about taking iron?
Correct. c
Rationale. vitamin C taken with iron increases absorption. A – iron should be taken with meals to avoid gastrointestinal distress. Iron is more readily absorbed when taken on an empty stomach. However, it frequently causes GI distress. B – dairy products should not be taken at the same as iron as they decrease absorption. Dairy products contain no iron. Iron intake does not increase the need for dairy products. D – the most common side effect of iron is constipation.

a.	Iron should be taken on an empty stomach at least 1 hour before meals
b.	It is good to increase consumption of dairy products while taking iron
c.	Citrus juice taken with iron will increase absorption
d.	Iron supplements often cause diarrhea and should be discontinued if diarrhea develops

23.	A woman is 10 weeks pregnant and tested positive for syphilis but has no symptoms. She asks you why she needs to be treated since she feels fine. Your best response to her would include which of the following?
Correct. a
Rationale. syphilis is associated with stillbirth, premature birth, and neonatal death.

a.	“Syphilis can be transmitted to the baby and may cause it to die before birth if you are not treated.”
b.	“If you do not receive treatment before the baby is born, your baby could become blind.”
c.	“If syphilis is untreated, the baby may be mentally retarded at birth.”
d.	“Syphilis may cause your baby to have a heart problem when it is born.”

24.	A client comes to the office for her first prenatal visit. She reports that January 3 was the first day of her last menstrual period. According to Nagele’s rule, what date should the midwife record as the estimated date of delivery (EDD)?
Correct. b
Rationale. October 10, the midwife can calculate EDD using Nagele’s rule (add 7 days to the first day of the last menstrual period, then subtract 3 months, and finally add 1 year). In this example, January 3+7 days = January 10. 3 months prior to that is October 10 of the previous year. Adding 1 year, her EDD is October 10 of the current year.

a.	October 17
b. October 10
c. October 27
d. October 20

25.	A client who is 41 weeks pregnant is about to undergo a biophysical profile (BPP) to evaluate her fetus well-being. The midwife knows that which of the following components are included in a BPP? Select all that apply.
Correct. a,b,d
Rationale. the BBP is an ultrasound assessment of the fetus well-being that includes the following components: nonstress test, fetal tone, fetal breathing, fetal motion, and quantity of amniotic fluid. Crown-rump length is used to assess gestational age and is done during the first trimester. Measurements of the biparietal diameter and femur length are also used to assess gestational age and are done in the second and third trimester.

a.	Fetal tone
b. Fetal breathing movements
c. Femur length
d. Amniotic fluid volume
e.	Biparietal diameter
f. Crown-rump length

26.	The home is based on mother’s record is primary for:
Correct. b
Rationale. empty

a.	Mother’s souvenir of pregnancy
b. Detection of high risk
c. husband’s information
d. Doctor’s information

27.	Implantation of the blastocyst occurs _____ days after LMP in a woman with 28 days cycle.
Correct. a
Rationale. 14th day (ovulation/fertilization) + 10 days travel and implantation of the zygote to the uterus = 24 days

a.	24
b. 14
c. 20
d. 7

28.	After 8th week gestation, development towards testes or ovary depends on presence of:
Correct. b
Rationale. the external reproductive organ of a fetus will differentiate depending on the presence or absence of testosterone.

a.	X chromosome
b. Testosterone
c. Estrogen
d. Y chromosome

29.	Measurement of 42 cms fundal height and FHT of 140/min. Should make you consider all, EXCEPT:
Correct. d
Rationale. signs and symptoms of H Mole: absent fetal heart tone, unusually large uterus, passage of grape-like vesicles, extreme morning sickness, signs and symptoms similar to PIH.

a.	Hydramnios
b. Egg baby
c. twins
d. H mole

30.	Blood for diabetes screening in pregnant patients made one after a 50 gram oral glucose intake is best taken at _____.
Correct. c
Rationale. empty

a.	During labor
b. 1st prenatal visit
c. 24-28 week s gestation
d. 12 weeks gestation

31.	When the long axis of the fetus forms a 45 degree angle with the long axis of the mother, this means all of the following except:
Correct. d
Rationale. when the long axis of the fetus and the mother forms a 45 degree angle, it means that the fetus is lying crosswise in the mother’s abdomen or in transverse lie that results in shoulder presentation.  This is an abnormal position and home delivery is contraindicated.  When the presenting parts are the buttocks or feet of the baby, the presentation is breech.

a.	The fetus is in transverse lie
b.	The midwife should expect for a shoulder presentation
c. Home delivery is contraindicated
d. Either the buttocks or the feet of the baby presents for delivery

32.	In vertex presentation which suture is not palpable during labor when doing an internal examination?
Correct. c
Rationale. the coronal suture (between frontal & parietal bones), lambdoidal suture (between parietal & occipital bones), & sagittal suture between the 2 parietal bones) can all palpated wen doing IE during labor. The temporal suture, located between the inferior margin of the parietal bones and upper border of temporal bones, cannot be palpated on IE during labor.

a.	Coronal
b. Lambdoid
c. temporal
d. sagittal

33.	The normal baseline fetal per minute:
Correct. c
Rationale. the normal baseline fetal heart rate is between 120 to 160 beats per minute. Fetal heart rate more than 160 is tachycardia and below 120 is bradycardia.

a.	More than 180 beats per minute
b.	160 to 180 beats per minute
c. 120 to 160 beats per minute
d. Less than 100 beats per minute

34.	A fetus in occipitoanterior position will have a FHT heard at the:
Correct. a
Rationale. when the fetus is in occipitoanterior position, the FHT is usually located a short distance from the midline of the abdomen.  FHT heard laterally on the midline is true with transverse lie presentations.

a.	Short distance from the midline
b.	Laterally on the abdomen
c. Anywhere in the abdomen
d. Near the maternal xiphoid

35.	The podalic pole of the fetus refers to the:
Correct. c
Rationale. the podalic pole refers to the breech and extremities.  The cephalic pole refers to the head of the fetus.

a.	Head and neck
b. Cranial bones, sutures and fontanels
c. Breech and extremities
d. Breech and back

36.	Engagement cannot be determined by:
Correct. c
Rationale. engagement can be determined by internal examination, rectal examination and 4th maneuver of Leopold’s. The second maneuver of Leopold’s is used to determine the location of the fetal back.

a.	Internal examination
b. 4th maneuver of Leopold’s
c. 2nd maneuver
d. Rectal examination

37.	When upon IE the midwife felt the anterior fontanel facing the birth canal, the presentation is:
Correct. a
Rationale. when the anterior fontanel is the presenting part, the fetus is in sinciput presentation or military attitude. In face presentation, the midwife will feel the eyes, nose and lips of the fetus.  In vertex presentation, it is the occipital fontanel that will be palpated on IE. In brow presentation, it is the forehead and brow of the baby that will be felt on IE.

a.	Sinciput
b. Brow
c. Face
d. Vertex

38.	In this type of attitude, the fetal back is concave.
Correct. b
Rationale. when the fetal back is concave, it means that it is extended. This type of fetal attitude results in face presentation.

a.	Vertex
b. Face
c. Complete breech
d. Shoulder

39.	During labor and puerperium, the leukocyte count as compared to that during pregnancy is:
Correct. b
Rationale. the leukocyte count during labor and immediate puerperium is more elevated than the leukocyte count during pregnancy.  It can be as high as 30,000 cu.mm (mainly of granulocytes), especially if the woman had a long and difficult labor. The very high white blood cell count is believed to be the body’s response to the trauma of labor & to protect the woman against infection & in the healing process.

a.	Not compatible
b. Greater than
c. The same as
d. Less than

40.	Which of the following statement about lightening is not true?
Correct. b
Rationale. lightening which usually occur 2 weeks prior to labor onset in primiparas is due to fetal descent and describes it as “the baby dropped”.  The lightening of the baby results in the presenting part to press or rest on the bladder.  This is the cause of frequency of urination felt by the pregnant woman after lightening.  As pregnancy reaches term, more of the space in the uterine cavity is occupied by the fetus and the placenta and the amniotic fluid volume decreases.

a.	It is due to fetal descent and development of lower uterine segment
b.	It is due to the volume of amniotic fluid
c. It is described by the mother as the baby dropped
d. It is related to frequency of urination

41.	When the fetus enters the pelvis, it is often in what position?
Correct. d
Rationale. the fetus enters the pelvis usually in right occipito transverse (ROT). MENTUM – is used in face and chin presentations.  ACROMION is used in shoulder presentations.  SACRUM – is used in breech presentations.

a.	ROA
b. LOT
c. LOA
d. ROT

42.	The encirclement of the largest diameter of the fetal head by the vulvar ring is known as:
Correct. a
Rationale. caput succedaneum is the accumulation of fluid under the scalp caused by pressure on the presenting part as it passes through the birth canal.  Ballottement is the fetal rebound that occurs when the floating fetus is tapped. Quickening refers to the 1st fetal movement.

a.	Crowning
b. Caput succedaneum
c. Ballottement
d. Quickening

43.	When determining the position of the fetus in vertex presentation, the part of the fetus that the midwife will use to orient to the maternal pelvis is the:
Correct. c
Rationale. MENTUM – is used in face and chin presentations.  ACROMION is used in shoulder presentations.  SACRUM – is used in breech presentations.

a.	Mentum
b. Sacrum
c. Occiput
d. Acromion

44.	The middle letter when describing fetal position denotes:
Correct. d
Rationale. the 1st letter denotes the side of the maternal pelvis where the presenting part is facing, whether it is the left or the right side.  The last letter denotes the portion.

a.	Side of maternal pelvis
b. Portion of maternal pelvis
c. Location of sagittal suture
d. Fetal presenting part

45.	When the position is LOP, it means all of the following except:
Correct. a
Rationale. the most ideal position is the left occipito anterior (LOA) position. LOP is characterized by a longer labor in which the presenting part is vertex or the occiput but is near the sacrum. Labor is expected to take longer and involves greater lower back pain as the fetus must rotate a longer distance and presses against the sacrum as it maneuvers in the birth canal.

a.	This is the most ideal position
b.	It is characterized by a longer labor
c. The presentation is vertex
d. The presenting part is located near the side of the sacrum

46.	The most common position for vaginal delivery is:
Correct. a
Rationale. the most common position for vaginal delivery is dorsal recumbent position.  This position facilitates the bearing down efforts of the woman.  Left side lying is employed when a woman has heart disease. Lithotomy position is used in instrumental deliveries of the vagina or when episiotomy is anticipated.  Squatting position is an alternative birthing position that is associated with shorter labor.

a.	Dorsal recumbent position
b. Left side lying
c. Lithotomy position
d. Squatting position

47.	The cardinal movements of labor occur in this order:
Correct. b
Rationale. the cardinal movements of labor refer to the positional changes that the fetus undergoes during its birth in order to pass through the narrow and irregular shape of the birth canal.

a.	Descent, flexion, extension, internal rotation, external rotation, expulsion
b.	Descent, flexion, internal rotation, extension, external rotation, extension, expulsion
c.	Engagement, descent, internal rotation, flexion, external rotation, extension, expulsion
d.	Descent, internal rotation, flexion, extension, external rotation, expulsion

48.	Which of the following does not bring about fetal descent?
Correct. a
Rationale. uterine contractions cause cervical dilatation, it does not cause fetus to descend in the birth canal.

a.	Uterine contractions
b.	Pressure of amniotic fluid
c. Maternal bearing down
d. Fundal pressure applied on the breech

49.	When the shoulders appear under the symphysis, the fetus has undergone:
Correct. d
Rationale. EXTENSION is achieved when the base of the occiput has contact with the inferior margin of the symphysis.  EXTERNAL ROTATION is achieved when the head has returned to the oblique position.  FLEXION occurs when the chin touches the chest.

a.	Extension
b. External rotation
c. Flexion
d. Expulsion

50.	In 4th degree perineal laceration, the tissues involved reach up to:
Correct. b
Rationale. in 4th degree laceration, the torn tissues involved the fourchette, vaginal mucous membrane, perineal skin, anal sphincter & mucous membrane of the rectum.

a.	Anal sphincter
b. Rectal mucosa
c. Fascia and muscles of perineal body
d. Vaginal mucus and perineal skin

51.	RhoGAM injected to the RH negative mother has which action?
Correct. c
Rationale. empty

a.	Destroys maternal antibodies
b.	Destroys fetal antibodies
c. Destroys fetal antigens before maternal  antibodies are formed
d. Destroys maternal antigens before fetal antibodies are formed.

52.	According to Rubin, the best time to teach a postpartum patient about maternal and infant care is which of the following phases?
Correct. c
Rationale. empty

a.	Postpartum phase
b. taking-in
c. taking-hold
d. letting-go

53.	A midwife in the postpartum unit reviews a client’s record and notes that a new mother was administered methylergonovine (methergine) IM following delivery. The midwife determines that this medication was administered to:
Correct. c
Rationale. Methergine is an oxytoxic. First dose is usually given via IM; subsequent doses are administered by mouth. It increases the strength and frequency of contractions and may elevate blood pressure.

a.	Decrease uterine contractions
b.	Maintain a normal blood pressure
c. Prevent postpartum hemorrhage
d. Reduce the amount of lochia drainage

54.	A rubella vaccine is administered to a client who delivered a healthy newborn infant 2 days ago. The midwife provides instructions to the client regarding the potential risks associated with the vaccination. Which statement by the client indicates an understanding of the medication?
Correct. c
Rationale. Rubella vaccine is a live attenuated virus that evokes an antibody response and provides immunity for approximately 15 years. Because Rubella is a live vaccine, the virus is potentially teratogenic in the organogenesis phase of fetal development. The client needs to be informed about the potential effects this vaccine may have & the need to avoid becoming pregnant for a period of 2 to 3 months afterward.

a.	“I need to stay out of the sunlight for 3 days”
b.	“The injection site may itch, but I can scratch if I need to”
c.	“I need to prevent becoming pregnant for 2 to 3 months after the vaccination”
d.	“I need to avoid sexual intercourse for 2 to 3 months after the vaccination”

55.	The mother of a newborn infant calls a clinic and reports to a midwife that when cleansing the umbilical cord, the mother noticed that the cord was moist and that discharge was present. The appropriate instruction to the mother is which of the following?
Correct. a
Rationale. Symptoms of infection are moistness, oozing, discharge, and a reddened base around the cord. If symptoms of infection occur, the mother should be instructed to notify a health care provider. If these symptoms occur, antibiotics are necessary. Options 2, 3, and 4 are inappropriate interventions for the description given in the question. (SILVESTRI: SAUNDERS COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW FOR THE NCLEX-RN EXAM)

a.	Bring the infant to the clinic
b.	This is a normal occurrence
c.	Increase the number of times that the cord is cleansed per day
d.	Monitor the cord for another 24 to 48 hours and call the clinic if the discharge continues

56.	A new breastfeeding mother is seen in the clinic with complaints of breast discomfort. The midwife determines that the mother is experiencing breast engorgement and provides the mother with instructions regarding care for the condition. Which statement by the mother indicates an understanding of the measures that will provide comfort for the engorgement?
Correct. c
Rationale. comfort measures for breast engorgement include massaging the breasts before feeding to stimulate letdown; wearing a supportive well-fitting bra at all times; taking a warm shower or applying warm compresses just before feeding and alternating the breasts during feeding.

a.	“I will breastfeed using only one breast”
b.	“I will apply cold compresses to my breasts’
c.	“I will massage my breasts before feeding to stimulate letdown”
d.	“I will avoid the use of a bra while my breasts are engorged”

57.	A midwife in the postpartum unit is developing a plan of care for a client following a cesarean delivery. The midwife documents which intervention in the plan of care that will assist in preventing thrombophlebitis?
Correct. a
Rationale. Stasis is believed to be a major predisposing factor in the development of thrombophlebitis.

a.	Frequent ambulation
b.	Applying warm moist packs to the legs
c. Remaining on bed rest with the legs elevated
d. Wearing support stocking

58.	A midwife is caring for newly delivered breastfeeding infant. Which intervention performed by the midwife would best prevent jaundice in this infant?
Correct. d
Rationale. to help prevent jaundice, the mother should feed the infant frequently in the immediate birth period because colostrum is a natural laxative & helps promote the passage of meconium. Offering the infant a formula will cause nipple confusion & decrease the amount of milk produced by the mother. Breastfeeding should begin as soon as possible while the infant is in the first period of reactivity.  Delaying breastfeeding decreases the production of prolactin which decreases the mother’s milk production. Phototherapy requires a physician’s order & is not implemented until bilirubin levels are 12mg/dl or higher in the healthy term infant.

a.	Encourage the mother to offer a formula supplement after each breastfeeding session
b.	Keeping the infant NPO until the second period of reactivity
c.	Placing the infant under phototherapy
d.	Encourage the mother to breastfeed the infant every 2 to 3 hours

59.	A 17 year old client is about to be discharged home with her newborn baby, and the midwife provides information to the client about home safety for children. Which statement by the client would alert the midwife that further teaching is required regarding home safety?
Correct. b
Rationale. A baby car seat should never be placed in the front seat because of the potential for injury on impact. Microwave ovens should never be used to heat the formula because the formula heats unevenly & it could burn or scald the baby’s mouth. Even though the bottle may feel warm, it could contain hot spots that could severely damage the baby’s mouth.

a.	“I have locks on all my cabinets that contain my cleaning appliances”
b.	“I have a car seat that I will put in the front seat to keep my baby safe”
c.	“I will not use the microwave oven to heat my baby’s formula”
d.	“I keep all my pots and pans in my lower cabinets”

60.	The patient who is six days postpartum calls and asks the midwife about the discharge she is experiencing. She states, “It has a very foul odor.” The midwife further assesses for sign of:
Correct. c
Rationale. A foul odor is a cardinal sign of infection and need for prompt intervention.

a.	Cleanliness
b. Hemorrhage
c. Infection
d. Knowledge deficit

61.	During the first six months of lactation, the midwife instructs the mother who is breastfeeding that she needs additional calories. What is the RDA during lactation?
Correct. c
Rationale. The RDA recommends an additional 500 calories to the 2,200 usually recommended for women.

a.	100 more calories
b. 300 more calories
c. A total of 2,700 calories
d. A total of 3,500 calories

62.	When is the postpartum “blues” or depression most likely to occur?
Correct. c
Rationale. The elevated hormone level falls by the fourth or fifth day, and this shift in hormones is believed to cause the depressed mood.

a.	First 48 hours
b. First 72 hours
c. Fourth or fifth day
d. During the second week

63.	The midwife assesses a patient who delivered one hour ago. The fundus is firm and two fingerbreadths below the umbilicus and the lochia is bright red. The patient complains of having chills. The midwife should be aware that this assessment is indicative of:
Correct. a
Rationale. Following delivery, the uterus continues to contract. The patient should be covered with a warm blanket, as chills are a normal process.

a.	A normal postpartum response
b.	The onset of hemorrhage
c. Onset of hypovolemic shock
d. An inverted uterus

64.	In explaining the pattern of discharge following delivery, the midwife explains that lochia will be heavier:
Correct. a
Rationale. When lying, lochia pools in the uterus and vagina and is discharged upon arising.

a.	In the morning
b. At night
c. As lochia cessation nears
d. Toward the end of lactation

65.	The midwife is caring for a woman who had a vaginal delivery an hour ago without complications. She has a boggy fundus after voiding 500 ml. The midwife caring for this woman should give highest priority to:
Correct. a
Rationale. gentle massage of the uterine fundus is indicated. If uterine atony is due to a full bladder, the bladder will protrude into the abdomen; if due to retained products of conception, clots will be expelled from the vagina; if due to an infection, a foul lochia will be noted. B – priority is given to attempting to perform external uterine fundal massage in order to determine uterine response. Further evaluation of lochia is done after attempted uterine massage. C – initial fundal massage noting uterine response is indicated. Pitocin may be prescribed by the physician or midwife after nursing assessments and nursing interventions are made and results of uterine massage are relayed to the health care provider. D – the midwife performs the initial assessment of the uterus and does uterine fundal massage. The bladder, lochia, and fundal firmness and placement should be assessed. if uterine atony is not resolved, the physician or midwife should be called for further evaluation.

a.	Massaging the fundus until it is firm
b.	Assessing the lochia
c. Adding pitocin to the intravenous solution being administered
d. Calling the health care provider

66.	A woman who delivered a healthy baby 18 hours ago has just been given Rho(D) immune globulin. Which finding indicates the need for administration of this medication?
Correct. b
Rationale. Rho(D) immune globulin is given to prevent maternal sensitization by promoting destruction of Rh positive red blood cells circulating in the mother’s bloodstream. Two of the criteria for administration of the Rho(D) immune globulin are: Rho(D) negative mother without RH antibodies (nonsensitized) and an Rho(D) positive infant. A – only nonsensitized Rh negative mothers receive Rho(D) immune globulin. C – Rho(D) immune globulin is given when the indirect coombs test of cord blood is negative. D – the Rho(D) immune globulin is given to Rho(D) negative mothers.

a.	The mother is Rho(D) negative with Rho(D) antibodies
b.	The infant is Rho(D) positive
c.  There is a positive direct coombs test of cord blood
d. The mother is Rho(D) positive

67.	The midwife is caring for the mother of a newborn. The midwife recognizes that the mother needs more teaching regarding cord care because she:
Correct. c
Rationale. washing the surrounding area is fine but wetting the cord keeps it moist and predisposes it to infection. A – exposure to air helps dry the cord. B – good handwashing is the prime mechanism for preventing infection. D - it is important to check for complications of bleeding and drainage that might occur.

a.	Keeps the cord exposed to the air
b.	Washes her hands before sponge bathing her baby
c.	Washes the cord and surrounding area well with water at each diaper change
d.	Checks it daily for bleeding and drainage

68.	On the second day postpartum, the midwife asks the new mother to describe her vaginal bleeding. The midwife should expect her to say that it is:
Correct. a
Rationale. lochia rubra is moderate red discharge and is present for the first 2-3 days postpartum.

a.	Red and moderate
b. Red with clots
c. Scant and brown
d. Thin and white

69.	A woman delivers a 6 lb, 4 oz (2835 g) baby boy. Which of the following statements would indicate to the midwife that the mother has begun to integrate her new baby into the family structure?
Correct. d
Rationale. family identification of the newborn is an important part of attachment. The first step in identification is defined in terms of likeness to family members.

a.	“All this baby does is cry. He’s not like my other child.”
b.	“I wish he had curly hair like my husband.”
c. “My parents wanted a granddaughter.”
d.  “When he yawns, he looks just like his brother.”

70.	A woman and her roommate each delivered a child 2 days ago. One is breastfeeding; one is instructions can the midwife give to both mothers?
Correct. a
Rationale. a well-being, supportive bra with wide straps can be recommended for both the nursing and the non-nursing mother for the support of the breasts and for comfort. The nursing mother’s bra should have front flaps over each breast for easy access during nursing.

a.	Wear a good, well-supporting bra
b.	Apply warm compresses to breast if too full
c. Apply cold compresses to breast if too full
d. Do not apply any soap to your nipples

71.	The diagnosis of gestational diabetes is made by:
Correct. b
Rationale. empty

a.	History of feto-pelvic disproportion
b.	History of delivery of a big baby
c.  presence of moniliasis
d.  presence of syphilis

72.	In our country at present, the most common cardiac condition complicating pregnancy is:
Correct. b
Rationale. empty

a.	Hypertensive heart disease
b. Rheumatic heart disease
c.  coronary heart disease
d. congenital heart disease

73.	Which of the following is NOT a confirmatory evidence of heart disease in pregnancy?
Correct. a
Rationale. empty

a.	Soft blowing systolic murmur
b. Diastolic murmur
c.  cardiac enlargement
d. severe arrhythmia

74.	The best time to counsel a diabetic about drug usage and glucose content in pregnancy would be:
Correct. a
Rationale. empty

a.	Before she gets pregnant
b. The 3rd trimester
c.  the early 2nd trimester
d.  the 1st trimester

75.	Which statement about incomplete abortion is correct?
Correct. d
Rationale. empty

a.	The main sign of incomplete abortion is fever
b.	Whatever the duration of gestation, serious hemorrhage is rare
c.	The fetus and placenta are more likely to be expelled together before the 10th week of gestation
d.	None of these

76.	If there is a bleeding and the cervix is closed, this is known as:
Correct. d
Rationale. empty

a.	Imminent
b. Inevitable
c.  incomplete
d.  Threatened

77.	Which of the following predisposes to greater frequency of abortion?
Correct. c
Rationale. empty

a.	Smoking
b. Severe general malnutrition
c.  all of these
d.  moderate to heavy alcohol consumption

78.	In spontaneous abortion, if membranes have ruptured and the cervix is open it is known as:
Correct. a
Rationale. empty

a.	Inevitable
b. Imminent
c.  threatened
d.  Incomplete

79.	Which of the following is needed in the management of obstetrical hemorrhage?
Correct. a
Rationale. empty

a.	All of these
b. Surgical team
c. available operating room
d. Intravenous infusion system

80.	Which of the following is a diagnostic clinical feature of hydatidiform mole?
Correct. c
Rationale. empty

a.	Uterine enlargement out of proportion to the gestational age
b.	Absence of fetal parts on palpation and fetal heart sounds on auscultation
c.	All of these
d.	Continuous or intermittent bloody vaginal discharge of about 12 weeks gestation

81.	The presence of an accessory lobe is known as:
Correct. d
Rationale. empty

a.	Placenta triplex
b. Placenta duplex
c.  placenta biparita
d.  placenta succenturiata

82.	Which of the following is excluded in the etiology of H-mole:
Correct. d
Rationale. Lack of personal hygiene

a.	Pelvic inflammatory disease
b. Malnutrition
c. Uncircumcised male partner
d. Lack of personal hygiene

83.	When one or more accessory lobes are developed in the membranes at a distance from the main placenta:
Correct. c
Rationale. empty

a.	Placenta bipartite
b. Fenestrated placenta
c. succenturiata placenta
d. Circumvallate placenta

84.	The rarest form of extrauterine (ectopic) pregnancy?
Correct. a
Rationale. empty

a.	Ovarian
b. Cervical
c. tubal
d. Abdominal

85.	Evacuation of hydatidiform mole is best accomplished by:
Correct. c
Rationale. empty

a.	Oxytocin stimulation
b.	Dilatation and sharp curettage
c. radical hysterectomy
d. Dilatation and suction curettage

86.	Abnormalities of the fetal urine production and amniotic fluid swallowing can result in changes in amniotic fluid volume. Which of the following condition will result in oligohydramnios?
Correct. d
Rationale. Potter’s syndrome causes obstruction of urine outflow.

a.	Bartter’s syndrome
b. Esophageal atresia
c. Anencephaly
d. Potter’s syndrome

87.	The amniotic fluid contains all but which of the following?
Correct. d
Rationale. empty

a.	Uric acid
b. Lanugo
c. Creatinine
d. Ketones

88.	You explained that there are several danger signs during pregnancy that should be reported. These include all of the following, except:
Correct. d
Rationale. empty

a.	Vaginal bleeding
b. Blurred vision
c. Leaking of amniotic fluid
d. Weight gain of 4 lbs or more in 3 weeks

89.	When caring for a patient with possible diagnosis of placenta previa, which of the following admission procedures should you omit?
Correct. b
Rationale. empty

a.	Perineal shave
b. Enema
c. Urine specimen collection
d. Blood specimen collection

90.	Which is a classic symptom of pregnancy-induced HPN?
Correct. b
Rationale. empty

a.	Edema of the feet and ankle
b.	Edema of the hands and face
c. Weight gain of 1lb/week
d. Early morning headache

91.	A midwife is caring for a client who has just had a mastectomy. The midwife assists the client in doing which of the following exercises during the first 24 hours following surgery?
Correct. a
Rationale. during the first 24hrs following surgery, the client is assisted to move the fingers and hands and to flex and extend the elbow. The client may also use the arm for self-care provided that she does not raise the arm above shoulder level or abduct the shoulder. Other options are done once surgical drains are removed and wound healing is well established.

a.	Elbow flexion and extension
b.	Shoulder abduction and external rotation
c. Pendulum arm swings
d. Hand wall climbing

92.	A client in the health care clinic has been diagnosed with endometriosis and asks the midwife to describe this condition. The midwife tells the client that endometriosis:
Correct. c
Rationale. empty

a.	Is pain that occurs during ovulation
b.	Is also known as primary dysmenorrhea
c.	Is the presence of tissue outside the uterus that resembles the endometrium
d.	Causes the cessation of menstruation

93.	An instructor asks a midwifery student to describe the procedure for performing Heimlich maneuver on an unconscious pregnant woman at 8 months gestation. The student describes the procedure correctly if the student states that she or he will:
Correct. d
Rationale. To perform the Heimlich maneuver on an unconscious woman in an advanced stage of pregnancy; place the woman on her back. Place a wedge, such as a pillow or rolled blanket, under the right abdominal flank and hip to displace the uterus to the left side of the abdomen. Options 1, 2, and 3 are incorrect and can harm the woman and the fetus.

a.	Place the hands in the pelvis to perform the thrust
b.	Perform abdominal thrusts until the object is dislodged
c.	Perform left lateral abdominal thrust until the object is dislodged
d.	Place a rolled blanket under the right abdominal flank and hip

94.	Which contraceptive method is most appropriate for a woman whose history reveals two episodes of thrombophlebitis with her previous pregnancy, repeated Candida infections, and gestational diabetes and who wants to postpone pregnancy?
Correct. c
Rationale. tubal ligation is a permanent method of contraception. OCPs are contraindicated to patients with thrombophlebitis and IUD is an invasive procedure.

a.	Oral contraceptive pill
b. Tubal ligation
c. Diaphragm
d. Intrauterine device

95.	A woman comes to the clinic on the 10th day of her cycle. She wants to use contraceptives pills for family planning. You will advise the following, EXCEPT:
Correct. b.
Rationale. empty

a.	wait for  her next cycle
b.	start her on contraceptive pill
c. advise the use of condom for this month
d. tell the couple to abstain until the next menses

96.	The most common fixative for pap smear is:
Correct. b
Rationale. empty

a.	ethyl alcohol
b. spray cyte
c. rubbing alcohol
d. spraynet

97.	Hyper immune globulin as post exposure prophylaxis maybe given against which:
Correct. b
Rationale. empty

a.	hepatitis B
b. all of these
c. varicella
d. rabies

98.	A midwife who intends to practice in a remote barrio must be good at which of the following:
Correct. c
Rationale. empty

a.	risk assessment
b. community mobilization
c. all of these
d. emergency management and referral

99.	Baseline mammography according  to American Cancer Society should be done by age:
Correct. c
Rationale. empty

a.	45-50
b. 25-30
c. 35-40
d. 30-35

100.	A woman who is taking oral contraceptives tells her midwife neighbor that she is experiencing a vaginal discharge. The most appropriate action for the midwife is to advise the woman to:
Correct. c
Rationale. chlamydia growth is enhanced by oral contraceptives. The primary symptoms of chlamydia infection are vaginal discharge and pruritis. Chlamydia is often seen in conjunction with other infections such as gonorrhea or trichomonas. Cultures and blood studies are indicated for diagnosis and treatment. Contacting a physician is necessary. A – the woman is at risk for developing of an infection. Over-the-counter remedies should not be prescribed until a diagnosis is made. B – changing of undergarments will not cure a sexually transmitted disease. D – oral contraceptives are a very effective method of birth control. Careful assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of the vaginal discharge should be done before terminating the pill.

a.	Purchase an over-the-counter remedy
b.	Change undergarments
c. See the physician as soon as possible
d. Stop taking the oral contraceptives


GOOD LUCK AND GOD BLESS!!!

“Forget past mistakes. Forget failures. Forget everything except what you’re going to do now and do it.” ~ William Durant