CATEGORY: NURSE
TOPIC: NURSE-FPNP
TOPIC_CODE: NURSE-FPNP
Nursing Practice 1. Foundation of Professional Nursing Practice

1. According to the Philhealth standards, a hospital must have Wellness clinics and health education activities such as the Diabetes Clinic. With a goal of health promotion, which of the following activities is the LEAST concern?
Correct.  a  
Rationale.    Diagnose Illness<br>
Health promotion activities involves the members in order to maximize their skills and knowledge. Its advantages to the members would include reduction of health care costs, reduce incidence of hospital admissions and offering layman forums wherein members can reach their optimal function.

a.  Diagnose Illness
b.  Maintain optimal function of the patient
c.  Minimize health care costs
d.  Offer layman forums

2. With regards to illness prevention activities, which of the following activities help clients MOST?
Correct.  b  
Rationale.    Reduce risk factors<br>
In health prevention, the risks are present but it can be reduced so that the tendency to get sick is also minimized.  The rest of options were either part of health promotion activities or health maintenance.

a.  Maintain maximum functions
b.  Reduce risk factors
c.  Promote habits related to health care
d.  Manage stress

3. Which of the following nursing goals MOST of the time taken for granted when at the hospital?
Correct.  b  
Rationale.    Health Promotion<br>
According to the World Health Organization, health promotion is the process of encouraging the people to heighten their control over and to improve their health status. It is geared towards a change of behaviour in order to attain optimal healthy functioning with the use of social and environmental interventions. However, this type of nursing goal often overlooked in hospitals.

a.  Illness prevention
b.  Health promotion
c.  Health maintenance
d.  Rehabilitation

4. Health maintenance involves four characteristics in order to attain its goals. Which of the following does not belong to the group?
Correct.  d  
Rationale.    Self-control<br>
Self-control is also a part of the motivation to change behaviour or status. The other options were part of the major characteristics of normal health maintenance.

a.  Perception of health
b.  Motivation to change behaviour or status
c.  Compliance to the set goals
d.  Self-control

5. Which of the following completes the four characteristics of normal health maintenance?
Correct.  b  
Rationale.    Access to social and economic resources<br>
Health maintenance can be achieved when the economic resources are within reach. Health maintenance entails finances and relationships that must be made in order to see the change within the health-seeking behaviour of the individual.

a.  Support Group
b.  Access to social and economic resources
c.  Physical examination
d.  Manage stress

6. Which of the following factors can hinder the access to health programs?
Correct.  b  
Rationale.    Poverty<br>
Poverty is the greatest threat to access to health programs. Increased incidence of preventable diseases, premature death and illnesses are linked to poverty which is a worldwide problem today.

a.  Stress
b.  Poverty
c.  Work
d.  Family

7. Which of the following activities involves primary disease prevention?
Correct.  a  
Rationale.    Immunization<br>
Primary disease prevention involves activities that would stop something in order to prevent worsening problem on the health. These activities involve regular exercise, stress management, nutrition class and immunization.

a.  Immunization
b.  Breast Self-Examination
c.  Well-child assessment
d.  Hospital admission

8. Which of the following the goal of secondary disease prevention?
Correct.  c  
Rationale.    To prevent disability and render intervention in the earlier stage

a.  To include activities which geared towards high level of wellness
b.  To reduce the risk factors present in an individual
c.  To prevent disability and render intervention in the earlier stage
d.  To ensure treatment and management of present illness

9. A cardiac patient came in to the hospital for his daily cardiac rehabilitation. This type of activity is included in the following:
Correct.  c  
Rationale.    Tertiary Disease Prevention<br>
Tertiary Disease Prevention involves activities that can reduce the likelihood of having the similar disease state through rehabilitation and assistance to reach the optimal health status. 

a.  Primary Disease Prevention
b.  Secondary Disease Prevention
c.  Tertiary Disease Prevention
d.  All of the above

10. A hospice is a family-centered institution wherein the major goal of its existence is to provide comfort and lifestyle of clients in the terminal stage of illness. This is an example of:
Correct c.  
Rational. Tertiary Disease Prevention<br>
Tertiary Disease Prevention may not promise that a person can return to its normal state. At some point this type of prevention may give comfort and palliative type of care such as in terminal cases in a form of hospices.

a.  Primary Disease Prevention
b.  Secondary Disease Prevention
c.  Tertiary Disease Prevention
d.  All of the above

11. A survey must be done in order to know the factors of increase incidence of needle-stick injuries among nursing personnel in the hospital. Which of the following research activities would a nurse researcher initially do?
Correct.  a  
Rationale.    Review related topics<br>
Since this is a survey type of study, a nurse researcher must first review related topics in order to provide a deeper knowledge of the subject of the study. Collecting data using  tool can be the next step and getting a permission to the hospital director will be next step when the study has been approved.

a.  Review related topics
b.  Find out how many had needle stick injuries in the unit
c.  Prepare a tool for collecting the data
d.  Get a permission from the nursing service director

12. A survey must be done in order to know the factors of increase incidence of needle-stick injuries among nursing personnel in the hospital. Which of the following statements contribute on the feasibility of the study?
Correct.  b  
Rationale.    Readability of the findings<br>
The findings must be understood so that purpose of the study can be complete. Other options were inconsistent to the feasibility of the study.

a.  Variables are diverse
b.  Readability of the findings
c.  Broad problems
d.  Findings are inconsistent
