CATEGORY: NURSE
TOPIC: NURSE-CHN
TOPIC_CODE: NURSE-CHN

13. As a community health nurse, you need to apply COPAR in visiting communities in order to meet their needs. On the first day of community immersion, which of the following activities involve the goal to get the whole set-up of the community?
Correct.  d  
Rationale.    Community health survey<br>
On the first day, a Community Health Nurse must be able to see the whole view of the community through a community health survey. This involves mapping the whole community in order to know the access roads and how many house will the nurse serve. In this type of ocular survey, the nurse may have an initial assessment of the whole community.

a.  Home visit
b.  Mass information drive
c.  Mother’s Class
d.  Community health survey

14. As a community health nurse, you need to apply COPAR in visiting communities in order to meet their needs. As a community health nurse, you know that this is the best toll for community assessment:
Correct.  d  
Rationale.    Home visit<br>
Since you are situated in a community, a home visit is the best tool in assessing the community. This is an activity wherein the nurse goes on foot in order to visit each houses, place a survey on each house and provide an observation on the health status and living arrangement of the people.

a.  Selective interview
b.  Ocular survey
c.  Conference
d.  Home visit

15. As a community health nurse, you need to apply COPAR in visiting communities in order to meet their needs. How can you encourage active participation of the people in a new community?
Correct.  c  
Rationale.    Community conference<br>
Conducting community conference can involve a lot of effort in the nurse’s part in order to get to know the people as a whole. Selecting a few clients can compromise the reliability of the facts taken. Observation can also do not supply the needed answers to questions since you really need to interact with the community.

a.  Selective interview of clients
b.  Observation
c.  Community conference
d.  Survey

16. As a community health nurse, you need to apply COPAR in visiting communities in order to meet their needs. When will be the best time to work with termination phase in a community immersion?
Correct.  b  
Rationale.    Orientation Phase<br>
In the orientation phase, a community health nurse must state the length of their stay in the community in order to provide the client a space to adjust with their presence and absence after the community immersion.

a.  Pre-Interview Phase
b.  Orientation Phase
c.  Working Phase
d.  Termination Phase

17. As a community health nurse, you need to apply COPAR in visiting communities in order to meet their needs. Community health nursing is a field of nursing which focuses on the:
Correct.  c  
Rationale.    Care of families<br>
With a premise, family is the basic unit of the society, the community health nursing is geared towards caring this small unit because this is the major driving force of the overall health status of the whole country.

a.  Individual patient
b.  Nursing community
c.  Care of families
d.  Health Education in the community

18. As a community health nurse, you need to apply COPAR in visiting communities in order to meet their needs. Community health has the following goals except:
Correct.  a  
Rationale.    Treatment of Illness<br>
Treatment of Illness does not belong to the group. Community health is part of the paramedical or medical approach that is concerned on the present health situation of the whole community.

a.  Treatment of Illness
b.  Health promotion
c.  Disease prevention
d.  Management of factors affecting health

19. Ina, 5 years old was brought in the health center due to fever, vomiting, abdominal pain. As a nurse on duty, what it your first priority?
Correct.  b  
Rationale.    Assess the patient<br>
Using the Nursing Process, assessment is the initial step upon meeting the patient. In this manner, you will be able to plan and perform nursing procedures using the nursing diagnosis that has been formulated.

a.  Perform nursing procedures
b.  Assess the patient
c.  Plan for your care regimen
d.  Identify nursing diagnosis

20. Upon assessment, you have found petechial rash on her extremities. What will be the next step?
Correct.  a  
Rationale.    Perform Tourniquet Test<br>
A tourniquet test or otherwise known as Rumpel-Leede Capillary Fragility Test must be performed upon assessment of petechial rash in order to determine the hemorrhagic tendency of the patient. It does not conclude that the patient may have Dengue but an initial tool in making differential diagnosis. Diagnosing and prescribing medications are not responsibilities of a nurse.

a.  Perform Tourniquet Test
b.  Diagnose it as a Dengue case
c.  Prescribe calamine lotion
d.  Conclude that the Dengue is on the third stage

21. How would you perform Rumpel-Leede Capillary Fragility Test?
Correct.  a  
Rationale.  A blood pressure cuff is applied and inflated to a point within the average of systolic and diastolic pressure.

a.  Inflate the cuff for 5 minutes within the pressure. The pressure is the average of systolic and diastolic pressure.
b.  Inflate the cuff for 3 minutes within the pressure. The pressure is the average of systolic and diastolic pressure. Since the patient is a child.
c.  Inflate the cuff for 2 minutes within the pressure. The pressure is the average of systolic and diastolic pressure.
d.  Inflate the cuff for 5 minutes within the pressure. The pressure is the sum of systolic and diastolic pressure.

22. After the Tourniquet Test, which of the following assessment would render a positive result leading to a suspected Dengue Haemorrhagic Fever?
Correct.  b  
Rationale.  The test is positive if there are 20 or more petechiae per square inch. This can be done by drawing an imaginary square on the cuff area.

a.  If there is disseminated petechiae.
b.  If there is more than 20 petechiae in one square inch.
c.  If there is no change noted.
d.  None of these.

23. The Department of Health implements Women’s Health and Safe Motherhood Project. Which of the following statements does not belong to its coverage?
Correct.  b  
Rationale.    Allowing home deliveries<br>
It is now not allowed to have home deliveries due to the increasing maternal and child mortality. The program focused on the prevention of maternal complications even when a trained hilot or midwife will perform the delivery at home.

a.  Developing networks such as BEmoNC and CEmoNC
b.  Allowing home deliveries
c.  Family Planning
d.  Facility-based deliveries

24. You are screening pregnant women in a rural health unit. Which of the following would require referral to a hospital?
Correct.  c  
Rationale.    Breech Presentation<br>
Breech presentation would need ceasarian section delivery since it is dangerous for the mother and the unborn child.  Rural health units are only catering normal spontaneous vaginal deliveries with following criteria: cephalic presentation, adequate pelvimetry, gravida 4.

a.  Cephalic presentation
b.  Adequate Pelvimetry
c.  Breech Presentation
d.  Gravida 4
