CATEGORY: NURSE
TOPIC: NURSE-SAUDI
TOPIC_CODE: NURSE-SAUDI

1. The client presented with complaints of body weakness, dizziness and chest pain. Upon careful assessment, the nurse suspects Angina Pectoris. 
Which of the following statements made by the client can confirm this?
Correct.  a  
Rationale.   Angina pectoris is a substernal pain that radiates to the neck, jaw, back and arms and is relieved by rest. 
Lower abdominal pain may indicate other gastrointestinal problems.

a. "I suddenly felt a pain on my chest which radiates to my back and arms".
b. "I suddenly felt a sharp pain on my lower abdomen".
c. "The pain does not subside even if I rest".
d. "The pain goes all the way down to my stomach".

2. The client from the OR is transferred to the post-anesthesia care unit after surgical repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm. 
Which of the following assessment findings would indicate that the repair was successful?
Correct. a  
Rationale.  50 mL/hr is the normal urine output. A normal urine output indicates that there is a good renal perfusion, 
and also connotes that the client is hemodynamically stable, therefore, the repair is successful.

a. Urine output of 50 mL/hr.
b. Presence of non-pitting, peripheral edema.
c. Clear sclera.
d. Presence of carotid bruit.
 
3. The client is scheduled for cardiac catheterization because the physician wants to view the right side of the heart. 
Which of the following would the nurse expect to see in this procedure?
Correct. a  
Rationale.  In cardiac catheterization or coronary angiogram, a catheter is inserted into the heart via a vein to measure the ventricular function. 
A dye is used to provide further assessment of the structure and motion of the heart. 
Thallium is a radioactive isotope injected parenterally so that the scintillation camera can count the radioactive uptake. 
This is observed when a physician requests for a Nuclear Cardiology test. 
When performing a Transesophageal Echocardiogram (TEE), a probe with a transducer tip is swallowed by the client to visualize for valvular abnormalities, 
possible thrombus, bacterial endocarditis and any congenital heart defects. When performing an Intracoronary Ultrasound, 
a tiny ultrasound probe is inserted into the coronary artery to evaluate for plaque size and consistency, arterial walls and effectiveness of the treatment.

a. A dye is injected to facilitate the viewing of the heart
b. Thallium is injected to facilitate the scintillation camera
c. A probe with a transducer tip is swallowed by the client.
d. A tiny ultrasound probe is inserted into the coronary artery

4. The client is being treated for hypovolemia. To assess the effectiveness of the treatment, the Central Venous Pressure (CVP) of the client is being monitored. 
Which of the following is TRUE about CVP?
Correct. d  
Rationale.  The central venous pressure is within the superior vena cava. The Normal CVP is 2-6 mmHg. 
A decrease in the CVP indicates a decrease in the circulating blood volume, which may be a result of hemorrhage or fluid imbalances. 
The right atrium is located at the midaxillary line at the fourth intercostal space, and the zero point on the 
transducer needs to be at the level of the right atrium. 
The client needs to be supine, with the head of the bed elevated at 45 degrees to correctly assess the CVP.

a. The CVP is measured with a central venous line in the inferior vena cava.
b. The normal CVP is 7 to 9 mmHg.
c. The zero point on the transducer needs to be at the level of the left atrium.
d. The client needs to be supine, with the head of the bed elevated at 45 degrees.

5. The client's ECG tracing shows ventricular tachycardia secondary to low magnesium level. 
Which of the following electrocardiogram tracing results is consistent with this finding?
Correct. d  
Rationale.  In hypokalemia, the electrocardiogram may show flattening and inversion of the T wave, the appearance of a U wave, and ST depression. 
Hypercalcemia can cause a shortened ST and widened T wave. The electrocardiogram of a hyperkalemic client shows tall peak T waves, widened QRS complexes, 
prolonged PR intervals or flat P waves.

a. The appearance of a U wave
b. Shortened ST segment and a widened T wave.
c. Tall, peaked T waves
d. Tall T waves and depressed ST segment

6. The nurse is teaching the client how to use a dry powder inhaler (DPI). 
Which of the following are correct instructions given by the nurse? Select All That Apply.
		<br>a. Load the drug first by turning to the next dose of drug, or inserting the capsule into the device, or inserting the disk 
		or compartment into the device.
		<br>b. Never wash or place the inhaler in water.
		<br>c. Shake your inhaler prior to use.
		<br>d. The drug is a dry powder that is why you will taste the drug as you inhale.
		<br>e. Never exhale into the inhaler.
		<br>f. Do not remove the inhaler from your mouth as soon as you have breathe in.

Correct.  a
Rationale.  Loading of drug depends on the type of dry powder inhaler. Take note that some dry powder inhalers do not require loading. 
Dry powder inhalers are kept dry always and are place at room temperature. Never shake a dry powder inhaler. 
It is not a pressurized container. There is no propellant, only the client's breath can pull the drug in. 
Because the drug is a dry powder and there is no propellant, the client will not feel, smell, or taste the drug during inhalation. 
The client's breath will moisten the powder causing it to clump and not be delivered accurately. 
Immediately after inhalation of drug, the inhaler must be removed from the client's mouth to prevent moisture.

a. a, b, e
b. d, b, e
c. f, b, e
d. a, b, f

7. The nurse is assigned to render care for a client who has a chest tube drainage system. 
Which of the following are appropriate nursing actions? Select All That Apply.
		<br>a. Strip the chest tube.
		<br>b. Empty collection chamber when the drainage makes contact to the bottom of the tube.
		<br>c. Keep chest tube as straight as possible.
		<br>d. Notify the physician of drainage is greater than 70mL/hr.
		<br>e. Assess bubbling in the water seal chamber.
		<br>f. Keep drainage system at the level of the client's chest

Correct. a
Rationale.  Stripping is not allowed. Also when changing the drainage system or when checking air leaks, clamp the chest tube for short periods only. 
Emptying of collection chamber or changing the drainage system should be done before the drainage comes in contact with the bottom of the tube. 
Avoid kinks and dependent loops to allow effective drainage and prevent disrupting the system. Report excessive drainage that is cloudy or red. 
Drainage will often increase with position changes or coughing.
Bubbling is expected and indicates air drainage from the client. 
Absence of bubbling may mean that the chest tube is obstructed, the lungs have fully reexpanded and no more air is leaking into the pleural space. 
Keep drainage system lower than the level of the chest to allow effective drainage.

a. c, d, e
b. d, c, e
c. a, d, e
d. b, d, e

8. The client with DKA is receiving bicarbonate IV infusion for treatment of severe metabolic acidosis. 
The nurse notes that the latest ABG shows a pH of 7.0. What should the nurse keep in mind in giving the drug?
Correct. d  
Rationale.  Sodium Bicarbonate should be slowly administered because fast infusion may result to abrupt reduction of serum potassium level 
which can eventually lead to arrhythmias. Diluting or mixing the drug with hypotonic solution (i.e. D5W) or isotonic solution (0.9% NaCl) 
can be ordered but not with hypertonic solution (I.e D10W).

a. Check vital signs before giving the drug and monitor serum sodium level.
b. Perform a sensitivity test prior to drug administration.
c. Mix the drug with D10W 500 ml IV fluid and infuse for over 4 to 8 hours.
d. Administer the drug slowly and monitor the potassium leve

9. The client with a gunshot wound on the abdomen starts to get lethargic, is breathing heavily, and the wound dressing is fully soaked with blood. 
The nurse is expected to immediately perform which of the following actions?
Correct. d  
Rationale.  Loosening tight clothing, applying warm blanket to prevent heat loss, and administering oxygen supply might help but is not the priority this time. 
Direct pressure over the bleeding site is a priority to prevent shock but placing a tourniquet on the artery is done by a surgeon. 
Because the client is showing signs of altered mental status, there is likely less perfusion in the brain, which calls for fluid resuscitation. 
At least two IV access allows administration of fluids – crystalloid, blood or clotting factors as necessary which is vital in correcting acidosis, 
hypothermia and coagulopathy, and to restore perfusion rapidly.

a. Loosen tight clothing and administer oxygen supply.
b. Apply warm blanket to prevent heat loss.
c. Apply large gauze on the bleeding site to put direct pressure or place a tourniquet on the artery near the bleeding site.
d. Initiate IV access.

10. The nurse is providing home instructions to a client with increased adrenocorticotrophic hormone. 
The nurse is aware that the client with excessive corticosteroids is suffering from what condition?
Correct. a  
Rationale.  Cushing's syndrome is clinically defined as the presence of excessive corticosteroids. 
Addison's disease is clinically defined as adrenocortical insufficiency. 
Hypothyroidism is a condition wherein there is insufficient thyroid hormone produced by the thyroid glands while SIADH is characterized 
by excessive release of anti-diuretic hormone.

a. Cushing's syndrome
b. Addison's disease
c. Hypothyroidism
d. SIADH

11. The nurse is assigned to a post-thyroidectomy client and is monitoring for signs of hypocalcemia. 
The nurse gently tapped the area below the zygomatic bone just in front of the ear. This action will elicit:
Correct. c  
Rationale.  Facial tremors will occur even without performing a specific maneuver. 
Exaggerated reflexes such as hyperreflexia can be assessed by performing a different maneuver. 
Gentle tapping of the area below the zygomatic bone just in front of the ear is used to elicit Chvostek sign to assess the presence of hypocalcemia. 
Trousseau sign is characterized by spasm of the muscles of the hand and forearm upon inflation of a BP cuff on it.

a. Facial tremor
b. Hyperreflexia
c. Chvostek sign
d. Trousseau sign

12. The nurse is caring for a client with an antineoplastic IV hooked on the right hand. 
The nurse notices that IV site is swelling and feels cool when touched. The nurse recognizes this as extravasation. 
This predisposes the client to develop which among the following complications? Select all that apply.
		<br>a. Infection
		<br>b. Tissue necrosis
		<br>c. Disfigurement
		<br>d. Loss of function
		<br>e. Amputation
		<br>f. Delayed healing

Correct. a
Rationale.  The leaking of vesicant drugs into surrounding tissue causes local tissue damage like delayed healing, tissue necrosis, disfigurement, 
loss of function and even amputation.

a. a, b, c, d, e and f
b. a, b, c, d
c. a, b, c, d, e
d. a, b, c, d and f

13. Nursing interventions commonly performed when the client is experiencing Autonomic Dysreflexia will include the following. Select all that apply.
		<br>a. Use digital stimulation to empty the bowel.
		<br>b. Have the client sit up straight and raise his head so that he is looking ahead.
		<br>c. Remove client's stockings or socks.
		<br>d. Manually compress or tap the bladder to allow urine to flow down the catheter.
		<br>e. Administer prescribed vasodilators.
Correct. a
Rationale.  Manual stimulation is recommended to evacuate impacted stool. 
Having the client sit up straight and raise his head so that he is looking ahead helps reduce the blood pressure as it allows gravitational 
pooling of blood in the lower extremities. 
Constrictive clothing may trigger an autonomic reaction that would cause the blood pressure to go up so this must be removed. 
Manual compression or tapping the bladder to allow urine to flow down the catheter should be avoided because this would trigger an increase in blood pressure. 
Administration of prescribed vasodilators is done to reduce high blood pressure.

a. b, c, e
b. c, e
c. a, b, c, e
d. b, c

14. Neurologic conditions can be manifested by changes in breathing patterns. The client presents with symptom of Cheyne-Stokes respirations. 
The nurse knows that this kind of breathing pattern shows:
Correct. d  
Rationale.  Option A is ataxic breathing. Option B is apneustic breathing. Option C is central neurogenic hyperventilation. 
Cheyne-stokes breathing respirations are a pattern of breathing in which phases of hyperpnea regularly alternate with apnea in a crescendo-decrescendo pattern.

a. Completely irregular breathing pattern with random deep and shallow respirations
b. Prolonged inspirations with inspiratory and /or expiratory pauses
c. Sustained regular rapid respirations of increased depth
d. Rhythmic waxing and waning of both rate and depth of respiration with brief periods of interspersed apnea

15. The physician is assessing the client's sensorium by using the Glasgow Coma Scale. Which of the following is true about the Glasgow Coma Scale?
Correct. d  
Rationale.  The lowest possible score for any response is 1. If a client is unresponsive to painful stimuli, the score is 1. 
A score lower than 8 indicates that the client is in a comatose state. The highest score for the GCS is 15. 
A score of 15 indicates an alert and oriented person. A score of 3-8 indicates severe head injury.

a. If the client does not respond to painful stimuli, the score is 0.
b. A score lower than 10 indicates that the client is in a coma.
c. A score of 8 indicates that the client is alert and oriented.
d. A score of 4 indicates that the client sustained severe head trauma.

16. The nurse on duty is caring for a client with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis and is concerned with the client's impaired physical mobility. 
The following nursing interventions are geared towards maintaining optimal physical mobility EXCEPT:
Correct. d  
Rationale.  Helping the client maintain an exercise program is a therapeutic intervention to maintain joint mobility and good body alignment. 
This will also prevent venous stasis due to impaired mobility. 
Client encouragement will not only address the physical aspect of the disease but the client's emotions and self-esteem as well. 
The safety of the client with impaired physical mobility should always be considered. Continuous physical activity is not recommended. 
There should be an alternate period of activity and rest to prevent excessive fatigue.

a. Maintain an exercise program.
b. Encourage participation in activities.
c. Instruct client related safety measures.
d. Schedule activities in the morning.

17. An elderly client had a cerebrovascular accident or stroke. The left brain is affected and is at risk for impaired verbal communication. 
The nurse asked a question and noted that the client has difficulty talking and communicating his thoughts. 
Which of the following terms should the nurse use to document the finding?
Correct. b  
Rationale.  Receptive Aphasia refers to the inability to understand spoken words but can freely express and verbalize. 
Expressive Aphasia refers to the inability to speak and communicate formulated thoughts and sentiments. 
Global aphasia affects both expressive ability and auditory comprehension. 
Apraxia is characterized by loss of the ability to perform activities that a person is physically able and willing to do.

a. Receptive Aphasia
b. Expressive Aphasia
c. Global aphasia
d. Apraxia

18. The client diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease is starting to show signs and symptoms. The nurse wants to assess for graphesthesia. This is performed by:
Correct. b  
Rationale.  Graphesthesia is the ability to identify the writing on the skin even with the eyes closed. The client provides a verbal response, 
identifying the figure that was drawn. Option A is a test for stereognosis. 
Option C is a test used to assess the Romberg's sign while option D is a test for Kernig's sign.

a. Testing for the client's ability to identify an object that is placed on the hand with eyes closed.
b. Testing for the client's ability to recognize the written letter or number in the client's skin while the eyes are closed.
c. Making the client stand, with the arms at the side, feet together, with the eyes open and then closed. The client is then observed for any swaying.
d. Testing for the presence of pain once the leg is flexed at the hip, and then extended.

19. The pediatric client presents with the following signs and symptoms: high fever, drooling, difficulty of breathing and leaning forward in a tripod position. 
Immunization history shows that the client never received any Hib vaccine. Which of the following is the priority of the healthcare provider?
Correct. d  
Rationale.  Any deterioration of oxygen saturation may necessitate intubation. However, the priority this time is to maintain a patent airway. 
Infusion of IV fluids and administration of antibiotics are expected nursing actions but not the top priority this time. 
Completing vaccination at this time will not suffice or treat the underlying respiratory problem. 
The situation calls for a curative management and not preventive measures. Airway closure is the top priority. 
Throat examination is avoided as this increases the risk of laryngeal obstruction. 
Aggression or agitation can also compromise airway and breathing.

a. Continuous oxygen therapy and constant monitoring of oxygen saturation rate.
b. A well regulated IV infusion and timely administration of antibiotics.
c. Vaccination of Hib and other remaining vaccines to complete required immunizations.
d. Avoiding any throat examination or agitation of the child.

20. The physician prescribed Clarithromycin (Biaxin) 250mg BID x 7 days for the client's infection. 
Incorrect drug frequency and duration would cause inaccurate transfer time of the drug to specific tissues in the body. 
The nurse explains to the client that accumulation of the drug in specific tissues is the concept of:
Correct. b  
Rationale.  Absorption is the process when the drug is transferred from the site of origin into the bloodstream. 
Distribution occurs when the drug in the blood is distributed to different parts of the body and accumulates in specific tissues. 
Metabolism or biotransformation is the process wherein the drug is broken down into its inactive form. 
Excretion is the body's response to eliminate all the inactive form of the drug.

a. Absorption
b. Distribution
c. Metabolism
d. Excretion

21. The nurse is to administer Meperidine (Demerol) 35 mg through the intramuscular route. 
Available meperedine is 50mg/mL. Which of the following is the least favorable injection site for intramuscular medication?
Correct. d  
Rationale.  The Ventrogluteal site is safe for most intramuscular injections because it only involves the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus muscles. 
The Vastus lateralis muscle is also a safe injection site for intramuscular medications because there are no adjacent large blood vessels and nerves. 
The deltoid muscle is a smaller muscle and is safe for administration of intramuscular medications less than 1 mL. 
The Dorsogluteal muscle is not recommended for intramuscular medications because of the potential damage to the sciatic nerve. 
Large blood vessels are also located near the dorsogluteal muscle and should be avoided.

a. Ventrogluteal
b. Vastus lateralis
c. Deltoid muscle
d. Dorsogluteal

22. The client presented with complaint of leg cramps. Upon checking the client's chart, 
the nurse noted that the client is hypertensive and is prescribed with a Thiazide diuretic. The appropriate nursing intervention for this client is:
Correct. b  
Rationale.  Prescribing or stopping medications is the responsibility of the physician, thus the nurse must refer this first. 
Thiazide diuretics cause loss of blood potassium while conserving blood calcium, thus, the electrolyte level must be evaluated first.

a. Stop the Thiazide diuretic
b. Refer to the physician for evaluation of electrolyte level of the client
c. Switch the client to a loop diuretic
d. Give the client a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID)

23. The client is wheeled into the delivery room and is ready for childbirth. While crowning occurs, 
the labor nurse applies gentle pressure over the perineum and fetal head. The maneuver performed is called:
Correct. d  
Rationale.  The brandt-andrew maneuver is the proper extraction of the umbilical cord and placenta. 
McRobert's maneuver is performed in case of shoulder dystocia during childbirth. 
The Schultz mechanism is used to describe placental delivery. 
The Ritgen's maneuver is performed by applying pressure over the perineum and counter-pressure on the fetal head. 
The Ritgen's maneuver controls the exit of the fetal head and prevents severe damage to maternal tissues.

a. Brandt-Andrew's maneuver
b. McRobert's maneuver
c. Schultz mechanism
d. Ritgen's maneuver

24. The nurse is monitoring the condition of the postpartum client. As a part of the postpartum adaptations, 
the nurse monitors for descent of the uterus and expects the fundus to be:
Correct. b  
Rationale.  The uterine fundus should start to descend after 24 hours of delivery. The normal rate of uterine descent is 1 cm/day.

a. On the same level after delivery
b. Decreased by 1 cm/day
c. Decreased by 1.5 cm/day
d. Decreased by 2 cm/day

25. The granddaughter of the client asked the nurse if it is normal for elderly people to feel sleepy despite sleeping for long hours. 
Which of the following conditions would the nurse suspect?
Correct. b  
Rationale.  In Somatoform Disorder, there is no real organ damage, but the client verbalizes symptoms of a disease in an unconscious manner. 
In Malingering, verbalization of symptoms of a disease is conscious and is used by the client to achieve a secondary gain or benefit. 
Anxiety comes in many forms panic attacks, phobia, and social anxiety and the distinction between a disorder and "normal" anxiety isn't always clear. 
Amnesia refers to the loss of memories, such as facts, information and experiences.

a. Somatoform Disorder
b. Malingering
c. Anxiety
d. Amnesia

26. Chemotherapy is one of the treatments for uterine cancer. The client asked the nurse how chemotherapeutic drugs work. 
Which of the following statements will be the best explanation?
Correct. d  
Rationale.  Not all chemotherapeutic agents alter the molecular structure of DNA. Chemotherapy should slow down cell division not hasten it. 
All cells are sensitive to drug toxins. 
Chemotherapeutic agents act on all rapidly dividing cells – most action of chemotherapeutic agents is that it affects all rapidly dividing 
cells including the normal and cancer cells.

a. Chemotherapeutic agents alter molecular structure of DNA.
b. Chemotherapeutic agents hasten cell division.
c. Cancer cells are sensitive only to chemotherapeutic agents.
d. Chemotherapeutic agents act on all rapidly dividing cells.

27. Vomiting is one of the most common side effects of chemotherapy. The nurse should be aware of which acid-base imbalance?
Correct. c  
Rationale.  Ketoacidosis is associated with high levels of ketone bodies in the body brought by breakdown of fatty acids and is not related to vomiting. 
Metabolic acidosis happens when the body produces excessive quantity of acid. Severe vomiting will result to loss of HCL and acids coming from extracellular 
fluids which in turn lead to metabolic alkalosis. Respiratory alkalosis occurs when there is an increased respiration which elevates the
blood pH beyond the normal range of 7.35-7.45.

a. Ketoacidosis
b. Metabolic acidosis
c. Metabolic alkalosis
d. Respiratory alkalosis

28. The client develops a 2nd degree skin reaction from radiation therapy. The nurse should expect the following symptoms EXCEPT:
Correct. d  
Rationale.  2nd degree skin reactions are evident by scaly skin, an itchy feeling and dry desquamation. 
Reddening of the skin is not seen in 2nd degree skin reaction.

a. The skin is scaly.
b. There is an itchy feeling.
c. There is dry desquamation present.
d. The skin is reddened.

29. The nurse is assessing the muscle coordination and mobility of the client with musculoskeletal disorder. 
The nurse noted impulsive and brief muscle twitching of the face and the limbs. This finding is called:
Correct. b  
Rationale.  Tremor is clinically defined as the rhythmic and repetitive muscle movement. 
Chorea is clinically defined as brief and involuntary muscle twitching of the face or limbs which hinders the client's mobility. 
Athetosis is clinically defined as the presence of irregular and slow twisting motions. 
Dystonia is similar to the definition of Athetosis but involves larger muscle areas.

a. Tremor
b. Chorea
c. Athetosis
d. Dystonia

30. The nurse is assigned to render care to a client with altered mobility. 
Which of the following statements is true regarding body mechanics when moving clients?
Correct. c  
Rationale.  Standing close to the working area is a proper body mechanic to prevent muscle fatigue. 
The nurse should adjust the bed to waist level in order to prevent stretching and muscle strain. 
Proper body mechanic includes turning the body as a whole unit when moving the client to avoid twisting the back. 
The knees are bent to support the body's center of gravity and maintain body balance. 
Bending the knees will provide a wider base of support for effective leverage and use of energy.

a. Stand at arm's length from the working area.
b. Elevate adjustable beds to hip level.
c. Swivel the body when moving the client.
d. Move the client with wide base and straight knees.

